The following is a conversation with Sergey Nazarov, CEO of Chainlink, which is a decentralized
Oracle network that provides data to smart contracts.
He and his team have done seminal research and engineering in the space of smart contracts.
Check out the Chainlink 2.0 white paper that I found to be a great overview of their technology
and vision.
It's 136 pages, but very accessible.
Quick mention of our sponsors.
Wine Access, Athletic Greens, Magic Spoon, Indeed, and BetterHelp.
Check them out in the description to support this podcast.
As a side note, let me say that externally connected smart contracts that combine the
ocean of data out there with the security of the blockchain are fascinating to me, both
technically and philosophically.
Data is knowledge, and knowledge is power.
I think the more reliable data sources we integrate into our decision making, especially
when those decisions are executed by programs, the more efficient and productive our decisions
become.
There are interactions between humans that should not be formalized digitally, like love,
for example, but for all the others, there's no reason for smart contracts not to automate
away the menial parts of life.
Making more room for good conversation over brisket and maybe some vodka with old and
new friends.
This is the Lex Friedman podcast, and here is my conversation with Sergey Nazarov.
Is that Yosek there?
So I gave away everything I own a few times in my life, and he accidentally survived,
and I don't like stuffed animals.
What I really liked about, I got them in a thrift store, what I liked about them is
because I'd never seen a stuffed animal that looks pissed off at life.
They're usually smiling in the dumbest of ways, and this guy was just pissed.
Yeah, I gotta tell you, that's actually pretty funny.
I like this guy.
If you had to live only in the digital world or the physical world, which would you choose?
So I think this is actually a question more about what the fidelity of the digital world
would be versus the physical world.
I think this type of question and this whole simulation thing actually comes from papers
about 20, 30 years ago in the philosophical world, where people tried to make this thought
experiment of, would you be comfortable if everything that was happening to you happened
in a simulation?
What they were trying to do is they were intuitively trying to understand, is there some kind of
intuitive personal connection we have to something being the real world, right?
And then the Matrix movie actually came out of these papers, and then these ideas made
their way into the public consciousness.
I personally think that if I had the choice to be in the digital world at the same fidelity
as the real world with immortality, I would absolutely go with the digital world.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
How'd you add the immortality part?
That's a...
Don't get immortality.
If you think about how we would go into the digital world, our brain patterns would be
mapped onto some kind of probably virtual machine, right?
And that would mean immortality, right?
Because the virtual machine has no limit to how long it can exist.
Well, don't you think there would be a versioning system?
This is a soft fork versus hard fork question.
Whether Sergey version 2.0 would be different from Sergey version 1.0, there would be an
upgrade.
So that's immortality.
Sergey 1.0 would die in the digital world.
You get a software update, and then that's it.
Well, yeah.
When people go into the Star Trek transporter, are they killed or are they transported?
I don't really know.
I haven't read any papers on this.
I haven't really thought about it too much.
There's no white paper on the transporter.
Not at this point.
What does fidelity mean exactly to you?
Is it strictly...
So the fidelity of the physical world is maybe now questions of physics, quantum mechanics.
What is at the bottom of it all?
Or do you mean the fidelity of the actual experience?
It's just perception.
But that's limited by human cognitive capabilities.
It is, but I don't really have anything else.
I think all of these papers that brought up these questions of assimilation, they were
like in epistemology and metaphysics.
And what they were trying to do, I think, was they were trying to put people through
a thought experiment where they would come out on the other end and say the reality of
life is really worth something.
And I don't, you know, ignorance isn't bliss, which is that consistent statement in the
matrix, right?
Ignorance is bliss.
That's what one of the guys says when he's like, you know, doing something wrong and
trying to get back into the matrix.
And the question is, is ignorance bliss?
And it's like a different version of that.
I think from a perceptual point of view, if my perceptions aren't in any way different,
so fidelity is very good, it doesn't matter.
I don't know, right?
So if I don't know something, it doesn't really exist.
And if it doesn't exist in my perception or my consciousness, then it doesn't exist.
Period for me, at least.
And then whether it exists in some, you know, more metaphysical version of things, I personally
never really got into the metaphysics stuff because I could never really, I couldn't understand
what the point of it was, right?
It's one of these things where I couldn't really get what the practical application
of it was.
And this is from those realm of questions, right?
If there was something about the world, but you didn't have a capacity to perceive it,
would it matter to you?
To me, it wouldn't matter.
Right.
To me, by the way, the simulation thing is a really interesting engineering question,
which is how difficult is it to engineer a virtual reality, a digital world that is
sufficiently of high fidelity where you would want to live in it?
I think that's a really testable and a fascinating engineering question.
Because my intuition says like it's not as difficult as we think.
It's not nearly as difficult as having to create a quantum mechanical simulation that's
large enough to capture the full human experience.
It might be just as simple as just a really nice quake game.
Like with a nice engine that's just creating all the basic visual elements that trick our
cognizance, our visual cortex into believing that we're actually in the physical environment.
And I think that if that's true, then that's quite, you know, that a high fidelity digital
world is actually achievable within a century.
And that changes things.
Yeah, yeah.
Maybe in our lifetime.
I'm really hoping for that.
I'm hoping somebody can copy my brainwaves onto a virtual machine and allow that consciousness
to continue to exist, whether that's death or not, I don't know.
But I think it's actually going to require some serious leaps.
Like even the VR headsets, they don't work if they go below 90 frame rates.
People start getting freaked out.
So you have to go from one gaming screen of, you know, 60 frames per second to two screens
of 90 frames per second.
And so the people's hardware today can't even handle that.
And that's for these two little screens by your eyeballs, what it's going to take to
like, you know, completely trick my consciousness into not knowing the difference in terms of
like, you know, all the sensory inputs.
I'm keeping my fingers crossed, whoever does that and is close to doing that, they should
contact me.
I want to have my brainwaves turned into a virtual machine.
Would you in that context, if Morpheus came to you, would you take the blue pill or the
red pill, meaning would you be happy just living in that world and not knowing that you're
living inside that virtual world that's running a computer, or would you want to know the
truth of it?
Well, actually, I think that's a very different question, right?
There's actually a moral ethical question there about whether you should allow a bunch
of people to get, you know, manipulated and killed and enslaved, because in the matrix
they're all enslaved and as like a AAA battery to turn a human being into the battery, right?
So I think the moral and ethical question of that, fascinating enough, isn't actually
different than the moral ethical questions we face today in modern daily life, but I
probably have given the choice of just completely going along or going against it.
I would probably go against it if I had to make this kind of binary choice.
Because going along with it, I think at that scale of scary, you know, stuff happening
to people is probably something really, really, really difficult.
But for your individual life, it's way more fun to go along with it.
So you're saying you value the opposing a system that includes the suffering of others
versus just for yourself enjoying the ride.
I mean, what's, if there is such a binary choice, why choose the opposing system?
I think it's the nature of kind of the ethical dilemma that you face in that situation.
There's kind of some, you know, this is obviously not something that's happening now, right?
We don't know this, right?
At the end of the day, at that scale of something like that happening, yeah, that scale of people
being manipulated and harmed, then I think pretty much almost all people have an obligation
to go against it.
Probably that's what that looks like, in my opinion.
So you've talked about the concept of definitive truth.
What is it?
In general, what is the nature of truth in human civilization?
And just talking about the digital age, the nature of truth in the digital age.
So the interesting thing about definitive truth is that it actually exists on this,
at least in my mind, on this spectrum between objective truth and just, you know, somebody
made something up and nobody else agrees.
So what I think definitive truth is, is it somewhere in the middle on that spectrum,
where if you and me define what truth is, right, like if you and me have an agreement
of some kind, and we say, as long as the weather is sunny, or the weather isn't, there is no
rain on that day, then there will be an insurance policy that results.
And you and me both agree that as long as three sensors, three monitoring weather monitoring
stations all say that, then the definitive truth for us and for that agreement is the
result of those systems coming to consensus about what happened out in the real world.
I think the objective truth definition from kind of the philosophical world is really,
really stringent and very, very hard to attain.
And that's not what this is.
And that's actually not what commerce or the ability for people to interact about contracts
needs.
But I think the world of commerce needs is an upgrade from someone can you'd and laterally
decide what the truth is to there can be a preagreed set of conditions where we define
what the truth is under those conditions.
And then, you know, you and me basically say, if these 20 nodes are of these 30 data sources
come to consensus within, you know, this method of consensus with this threshold of agreement,
then definitive truth has been achieved for you and me in our relationship for this specific
agreement and the specificity and our shared agreement to that kind of truth or that definitive
truth being acceptable to both of us is probably what's kind of necessary and sufficient for
everything to move forward in a better way.
In any case, much better than, you know, I'm a bank or an insurance company, I'm going
to unilaterally decide what happens.
It's definitely an upgrade from that.
Do you think it's possible to define formally in this way a definitive truth for many things
in this world?
Like you talked about whether it's basically defining that if three sensors of whether
agree, then that we're going to agree that that is a definitive, useful truth for us
to operate under.
So how many things in this world can be formalized in this way, do you think?
A huge amount, so there's actually two things going on here.
One thing is the amount of data that already exists, right?
And the pieces of data coming off of, you know, markets, IoT, shipment of goods, any
number of other things.
Like even your YouTube channel has a certain amount of likes or a certain amount of clicks
or a certain amount of views and even that's quantifiable, right?
So even to a certain degree, what we do here today, you and me right now can be quantified
as far as the amount of views, the amount of clicks, the amount of any number of other
things.
Yeah, you, the viewer have power of data in your hands by clicking like or dislike right
now or the subscribe button or the unsubscribe button, which I encourage you to do.
Anyway, okay, so there's data flowing into all interactions in this world.
There's data.
There's more and more data, right?
More and more data.
That data is more and more accessible to everybody and that accessibility and the fact that
there's more of it means we can form more definitive truth proofs.
We can form more and more proofs and as we form those proofs, well, we can provide them
to these blockchains and smart contract systems that consume them and then they're tamper
proof, right?
So they can't be manipulated.
And so now we've combined a system that can prove things with a system that guarantees
a certain outcomes and we have a better system of contracts, which is actually an unbelievably
powerful tool that has never existed before.
Can we talk about the world of commerce and finance, decentralized finance?
What is it?
What's its promise from both the philosophical and technical perspective, if we just zoom
in on that particular space of the digital world?
Sure.
So the decentralized finance is the instantiation of a specific type of contract, smart contract,
right?
They're called hybrid smart contracts, which are these contracts that combine the on chain
code together with the off chain proofs that something happened.
That's they're called a hybrid because they basically use both of these systems, right?
The blockchain and the proofs about what happened.
And what DeFi is is one specific type of hybrid smart contract that is taking on the contractual
agreements you traditionally find in the financial global financial system, right?
And that's basically the world of lending, the world of yield generation for people
giving me or giving whoever their money and somebody giving back them yield back to them,
which is what bonds do and what treasury is doing, what a lot of the global financial
markets do, as well as the ability to gain exposure and protection from different types
of events and risks.
That's a lot of what derivatives do, right?
Derivatives allow us to say, hey, something's going to happen and I'm either going to protect
myself by getting paid if it happens or I'm going to benefit from it happening by basically
saying it's going to happen, putting money down on that and that prediction will get
me a return.
Now that's a very large part of the global financial system, excluding all the stuff
for global trade and letters of credit and all the stuff that facilitates international
trade.
So excluding that at least for now.
So if we look at what decentralized finance does, it takes all of those agreements about
generating yield, lending, and all of these types of things you find in global finance
and the world of derivatives and a few other types of financial products.
And it basically puts them into a different format, right?
So the format you have for centralized financial agreements is that you go to a bank, even
if you're a hedge fund, even if you're like the richest people, you go to a bank, they
make a product for you and you hope that they honor the product that they made for you.
Or you do a deal with another hedge fund or whoever, some counterparty and you hope that
that deal is honored.
And then a number of very freaky things start to take place.
One of them is people don't have clarity about what the agreement is, right?
So a lot of people don't know exactly what the agreement is between those parties because
they can't actually see it.
Sometimes agreements are kept very private or parts of them are kept private and that
keeps other counterparties, other people in the system from understanding what's going
on.
This is actually partly what happened with the mortgage crisis.
The mortgage crisis in 2008 was basically, there were a lot of agreements, there were
a lot of assets, but because the centralized financial system worked in such an opaque
way, it was so unbelievably difficult to understand what was going on, right?
And so that lack of understanding for the global financial system basically led to a
big boom and then correspondingly, very, very big bust, which amazingly enough had a huge
impact on everybody even though they didn't participate in the boom part of the equation.
In any case, what decentralized finance does is it takes these financial contracts that
power the global financial system, it puts them in this new blockchain based format that
basically at this point provides three very powerful things.
The first thing that it provides is complete transparency over what's going on with your
financial product.
So this means when you use a financial product in the DeFi format, you and you as a technical
person actually can drill down very, very, very deeply and you can understand where the
collateral is, you can understand how much collateral there is, you can understand what
format it's in, you can understand how it's changing, you can understand this on a second
to second or block to block basis, right?
So you have complete transparency into what's going on in the financial protocol that you
have your assets in, which is because blockchains and infrastructure, all of these things are
built on, force that transparency, right?
Whereas the centralized financial system is very, very good at hiding it.
It's very good at hiding it and packaging things in a glossy wrapper, creating a boom
then a bust.
The centralized finance is built on infrastructure that forces transparency such that everyone
can understand what the financial product does from day one and in fact escaping that
property is practically impossible or if someone tries to escape it, it becomes immediately
obvious and people don't use their financial product.
So that's number one.
Number two is control.
So if you look at what happened with Robinhood, everybody thought the system worked a certain
way, right?
Everybody thought I have a brokerage account, I can trade things under a certain set of
market conditions and then the market conditions changed within the band of what people thought
they could do and everybody was fascinated to find out that, oh my God, I thought my
band of market conditions in which I can control my assets is X but it is actually Y, is actually
much, much smaller band and the reason it is a much, much smaller group of market conditions
is that the system doesn't work the way people think it works.
The system was wrapped up in a nice glossy wrapper and given to them to get them to participate
in the system because the system requires and needs their participation.
But if you actually look at how the system works underneath, you will see that it does
not work the way people think that it works.
And this is actually another reason that DeFi is so powerful because DeFi actually and these
blockchain contracts give people the version of the world they think they already have,
which is why they don't beg for it, right?
So everybody thinks they're in a certain version of the world that works in this reliable,
transparent way.
They're not.
They don't realize it.
And so they're confused when you tell them, I'm going to make the world work this way
because they think they're already in that world.
But then things like Robinhood make it immediately painfully clear that that's not how the world
works so that the second real property of DeFi is control, which means that you control
your assets, not a bank, not a broker, not a third party, you, you control your bitcoins,
you control your tokens and the finance protocol.
If you don't like how something's going in that protocol, you can remove it.
You can send it to another protocol or you can use a feature of the protocol to do something
it's supposed to do.
And guess what?
You just say, oops, you know, that feature, that isn't so good for my friends over here.
You know, that feature is actually, you know, we're just going to pause that feature in
the critical moment when you need it to, to, to, to execute your, you know, your strategy,
which is why you took all the risk to begin with.
And then the final reason, you know, the final thing to know about DeFi is that DeFi is
inherently global and actually right now provides better yield globally.
So if you go to a bank right now with the US dollar, you get 1% or less.
If you go to DeFi with the US dollar, you get 7% or 8%.
So if we think about that in a world where there's a lot of inflation coming down the
road and we think about, well, you know, a lot more systems might be failing soon and
they might be highlighting this types of problems that were there for, or as a result of the
type of control that you see in, in, in Robinhood.
And people are more and more concerned about both transparency and control and they're
looking for yield to combat inflation.
I think that's what DeFi is about in a practical sense.
It is this clarity about your risk.
It is control over your assets.
And amazingly at the same time as having those two unbelievably useful properties, it is
actually superior yield, which, which, which, which just leads me to the very obvious conclusion
that the only reason DeFi is more used is because more people don't know about it.
And by virtue of this long kind of, you know, explanation here and here and elsewhere, more
people will know about it.
And it's just such an obviously superior solution that I haven't heard a single explanation
as to why, no, no, don't earn 8% and take less risk and have more transparency with
your assets, earn 7% less, take more risk and give people the ability to change the
rules on you at their discretion.
Go do that.
Who's going to do that?
And in general, on the first two of transparency and control, first of all, I do think maybe
you can correct me, but from my perspective, they're, they're like deeply tied together
in the sense that transparency gives control.
It creates accountability and, and there's this kind of game being played game, game
theoretic game where if I know, if you know, I'm going to discover your deviation, you're
not going to deviate.
Yes.
This could be a whole nother conversation, but just as a small aside on the social network
side of things, which I've been thinking deeply about in the past year or so of how to do
it right there, how to fix our social media.
And I tend to believe that human beings, if they're given clear transparency about which
data is being stored, how it's being used, where it's being moved about, just all a clear
simple transparency of how their data is being used and them having the control at the very
minimal level of being able to participate or to walk away and walk away means delete
everything you ever known about me.
And that will create a much, much better world that currently there's a complete lack of
transparency in social media, how the data is being used for your own protection.
I mean, there's a lot of parallels to the central bank situation and there's not a control
element of being able to walk away.
Like being able to delete all your data, delete your account on Facebook is very difficult.
It doesn't take a single click, which I think is what it should take.
There should be a big red button that says delete everything you've ever known about
me or like, forget me.
So I think that couple together can create a very different kind of world and create
an incentivization that will lead to like progress and innovation and just like a much
better social network and a really good business for the future social networks.
But so I tend to see like control as naturally being a sort of an outgrowth from the transparency.
It should all start at the transparency, which is why the smart contract formulation is fascinating
because like you're formalizing in a simple, clear way any agreements that you're participating
in.
And as a side comment also, what's really inspiring to me is that I think there's a
greater, I don't know if this is always the case, but it seems like from having talked
to people on the psychological element, there's a hunger amongst people for transparency and
for control.
Like transparency, another word for that is authenticity.
If you look at the kind of stuff that people hunger for now, they want to know the reality
of who you are as an individual.
So that means you can create businesses, you can create tools that are built on authenticity
or transparency.
And then the same I'm inspired by the intelligence of people.
If you give them control, if you give them power that they would make good choices.
That's really exciting.
Of course, not everybody, but that means that decentralized power can create effective systems.
So a couple of that, there's a hunger for transparency, so we can move to a world where
everyone's being just like real, conveying their genuine human nature.
And people are sufficiently intelligent that if they're given power in a distributed mass
scale sense that we're going to build a better world to that as opposed to centralized, supervised
control or only a small percent of the population know what the hell they're doing.
Everybody else is clueless sheep.
So those two coupled together is really to me inspiring.
Just a really quickly comment on the stuff that you just said, which I think is super,
super, super fascinating.
I think that's all exactly right.
I think everything that you said is right.
And I think it's actually going to be the same for social media and banking and every
other type of contract is that all of those systems that house people's value for them
and take control of either their social media value or their financial value or whatever
for them, all of that is going to be made available to people in like this autonomous
piece of code that does the same thing that the centralized entity used to do.
So they get all the features, but the autonomous piece of code gives them the ability to have
control while getting all the features, right?
So banks give you features, social media sites give you features, you know, whatever other
system that you use online gives you features.
And then it takes your data and it takes control of your assets from you in return for those
features, right?
I think the whole big difference here partly in line with, you know, the definition of
smart contracts and its evolution is that there's this autonomous piece of code that's
giving you all those features without requiring the ownership and lock in and control and
unilateral kind of ownership of your data or your value or whatever it is that you're
giving it, right?
And I think what this will lead to fundamentally is just more of a free market dynamic among
how people make, I think with the social media folks, you should just make some kind of law
or something where you can just export all your data from them.
Everyone should be able to get their data exported by another application.
And then the network effect of all these social media sites will kind of crumble because people
will just combine your Twitter data with your Facebook data with everything else into an
application that you control.
And there will just be thousands of different interfaces competing for how to consume all
the social media data because it isn't locked in in one centralized actor's control.
And so this is just the recurring pattern of what I think all of this will do is it'll
give people a better deal, right?
It gives them features without ownership of data, without ownership of value, and that's
really the difference.
So I think this is a good place to talk about smart contracts then.
Can you tell me the history of smart contracts and the basic sort of definitions of what
is it?
Sure.
So I think smart contracts as a definition has actually gone through some kind of changes
or a small evolution.
Initially, I think it was actually a conception of a digital agreement that was tamper proof
and could know things about the world, right?
So it could get proof and it could define that something happened and it could conclude
an outcome and release payment or do something else.
That's actually the definition of smart contracts that I began working in this industry with
seven or eight years ago when I started making smart contracts.
That is the conception that I had of a smart contract.
Then what happened was that was really hard to do, right?
Building that type of tamper proof digital agreement that could also know things about
the real world and release payments back to people about those events that were codified
in this tamper proof format was actually a very tall order, turns out it's consistent
of three parts.
It's consisting of the contract, the proof about what happened, and the release of value.
The way things have evolved so far is that the definition has now come to mean on chain
code, right?
So it's come to mean the codification of contractual agreement on a blockchain, right?
So there's some code somewhere on some blockchain that defines what the agreement is.
Now that eliminates the part of the definition that's related to knowing things about the
world and it partly eliminates the definition about payments and stuff like that.
But basically it's on chain code, right?
We in our recent work on a second white paper have actually put out a different definition
that we call hybrid smart contracts that actually tries to go back to the initial definition
that I started with seven or eight years ago, which basically says that there's some proof
somewhere that's proven to the contract and the contract can know that and the contract
can gain proof.
Then it can use that proof to settle the agreement that's codified on a blockchain.
So you both need a mechanism to provide proof.
You need a mechanism to codify the contract in a tamper proof way on something like a
blockchain.
And then as with all contracts, there's a presumption that there's some kind of release
of value.
So I think a smart contract in our industry right now means on chain code, which limits
it to whatever can be done on chain only.
And then in our internal definition for us and for us a chain link and for me, it's
hybrid smart contracts, which is actually the original definition.
It's the idea that a contract can both know what happened and automatically resolve to
the proper outcome based on what happened.
So you're referring to the chain link 2.0 white paper, which is a paper that I recommend
people look as a very easy read and very well structured and very thorough.
So I really enjoyed it very recently released, I guess.
Can you dig in deeper?
What is a hybrid smart contract?
You mentioned sort of this idea of data or knowing about the world and on chain and off
chain.
So what are the different roles in this?
So hybrid, by the way, refers to the fact that it's on chain and off chain contracts.
So maybe digging deeper of what the heck is it and what does it mean to know stuff about
the world?
Like, how do you actually achieve that?
Yeah, absolutely.
So the on chain part is where the agreement itself is.
That's the smart contract itself.
And that's where you codify certain conditions such as the conditions under which an interest
payment is made or the conditions under which the contract pays out the full amount that
it holds to someone based on a derivative outcome or something like that.
Now what the on chain code is very good at is creating transparency about what the core
conditions of the contract are.
It's very good at taking in money from other private keys that send it tokens and send
it value to hold.
And then it's also very good at returning money or returning value back to other addresses
or other private keys.
It can also be involved in governance, it can be involved in a few other private key signature
based operations, but primarily the on chain part of a hybrid smart contract from what
I've seen so far defines the agreement takes in value and returns value based upon the
conditions codified in the agreement on a blockchain.
The second and equally important off chain part is where the term oracle and oracle comes
in or an oracle mechanism or a decentralized oracle network as we describe it in the paper.
And this is another decentralized computational system that has a different goal.
So blockchains have the goal of packaging transactions into blocks and connecting them
in a cryptographically unique way to create security and assurance about that chain of
transactions oracles and decentralized oracle networks achieve consensus and they achieve
decentralization about the topic of what happened.
So blockchains structure transactions, some of those transactions might be the state changes
in different pieces of on chain code and then those on chain pieces of code require input.
I think the thing that people get kind of a little bit thrown by is despite being called
smart contracts, the on chain code on a blockchain cannot actually speak to any other system.
So blockchains are valuable and useful as far as their tamper proof and secure and to
be tamper proof and secure, they're made this kind of walled garden that is able to know
and interact only with the highly reliable information that's within that system, which
is basically tokens and private key signatures.
All the other worlds information is not available in a blockchain inherently and a smart contract
or a piece of on chain code can't just say, Hey, I'm going to go get some data from over
here because the API they would get it from creates a whole bunch of security concerns
for the blockchain itself and a whole bunch of consensus issues about how to agree on
what that API said or what the truth of the world is, right?
Because it's not even agreeing on what one API said.
It's more so creating a reliable form of decentralized computation that can give you a definitive
proof of what happened and not just what one API said.
So for example, some of our most widely used networks have well over 30 nodes and well over
10 data sources that are all providing information about the same type of data.
And then there's consensus on that one piece of data, which is then written in and essentially
given back into the on chain code to tell it what happened because you can't really
make an agreement unless you know what happened, right?
If you and me were to make an agreement and set some contractual conditions, but our agreement
could never know what happened.
It would be completely useless.
However, if you and me made an agreement and there was another system called an Oracle
mechanism or decentralized Oracle network that proved what happened definitively and
you and me preagreed that whatever this mechanism says is what happened, then we can achieve
an entirely new level of automation, right?
We can suddenly say there's this piece of on chain code that's highly reliable.
We can give it millions, billions, eventually trillions of dollars in value and it is controlled
by this other system over here that's also highly reliable under this configurable set
of definitive truth and decentralization conditions, which we all agree are sufficiently
stringent to control that much value.
And therefore the combination of this tamper proof on chain representation of a contract
and this mutually agreed upon definition of a trigger or a proof system combined is a
hybrid smart contract, which as you can see probably already does a lot more than just
a contract on chain, right?
Can you talk about this consensus mechanism, which by the way is just fascinating.
So there is the on chain consensus mechanism of proof of work and proof of stake.
And then there is this Oracle network consensus mechanism of what is true.
So how do you, can you compare the two, like how do you achieve that kind of consensus?
How do you achieve security in integrating data about the world in a way that's definitively
true in a way that is usefully true such that we can rely on it in making major agreements
that as you said, involve billions of trillions of dollars, right?
So this is the challenging, this is the challenging question, right?
This is the challenging problem that Oracle networks, oracles, we had chain link that
we work on in order to create this definitive truth to trigger and create hyper automation
in this more advanced form, more advanced form of hybrid smart contracts.
The reality I think of this problem is that it is very specific to each use case.
And this is actually how we've architected our system is in a very flexible way.
So for example, you need an ability for an Oracle network to grow in the amount of nodes
that it has relative to the value it secures, right?
So if you have an Oracle network that secures $100,000 in like a beta of a financial product,
maybe it can be fine with only seven nodes and only two or three data sources, right?
Because the risk to that Oracle network is relatively low based on the value it secures.
So the first question is actually how do you scale security relative to value secured by
that Oracle network, because it wouldn't be very efficient to have a thousand nodes securing
$100,000 worth of value.
So one of the first questions is how do we properly scale and how do we compose ensembles
of nodes in a decentralized way where we can know that, okay, we're going from seven nodes
in a network to 15, to 31, to 57, to 105, to a thousand, right?
So that's one dimension of the problem.
So you have to be scaling the number of nodes relative to the value that's derived from
the truth integrated into those nodes.
Well, that's not the only problem, right?
The other side of this is that you're trying to create a deterministic result, a deterministic
output from a set of non deterministic disparate systems, data sources, or places that prove
things.
Can you also just as a side, what is an Oracle node?
What is the role of an Oracle node?
Sure.
So an Oracle node essentially exists in both places.
It exists in both worlds.
It exists as an on chain contract that represents either an Oracle network or an Oracle node.
So there's an on chain interface in the form of a contract that says, I exist to give you
this list of inputs.
You can request weather data from me.
You can request price data from me.
You can ask me to send a payment somewhere.
It's like an API.
So it's a pointer to API that provides truth about this world, by its data.
It's an interface.
It's like an API is an interface for web 2.0 engineers.
Oracle networks and the contracts that represent them or individual nodes are the interface
of web 3.0's use of services.
And services includes all services, data, payment systems, messaging systems, whatever
web 2.0 or any kind of computing service that you can conceptualize, needs an interface
on chain in the form of a contract that says, here are the services I can provide for you.
Here are the transactions you need to send me to get back this data or that computation
or this result.
And then what you actually see is that decentralized Oracle networks, because they're uniquely capable
of generating their own computations in a decentralized way around the data that they
have access to, you actually see decentralized Oracle networks generating a lot of these
services.
So we have a randomness service, a verifiable randomness function service that basically
provides randomness on chain, and that randomness is then used in lotteries and various other
contracts that need randomness.
But that randomness, it's not a piece of data that comes from somewhere else.
We don't go to another data source and get it.
We generate it within an Oracle node that then provides it over into Oracle node or
Oracle nodes that provided into the contracts themselves.
So what do you say Oracle nodes are not deterministic?
Well, they are as far as they come to consensus, but there's this kind of different problem
here, right?
The blockchains are very focused on generating blocks of transactions within a smaller universe
of transaction types, a certain block size and a certain set of conditions.
And then they have an economic system that says, I will perpetually generate blocks
of this size with these transaction types in this kind of limited set of transaction
types, whether those are UTXO transactions or scripted, Solidity or whatever it is.
Oracles and Oracle networks, we don't have a blockchain, for example.
There is no chain link blockchain.
Our goal is not to generate a certain set of very clearly predetermined transaction
types into a set of transactions that are put into blocks and will infinitely be done
that way.
Our goal is actually to create what we call a meta layer, a decentralized meta layer between
the nondeterministic, highly unreliable world and the highly hyperreliable world of blockchains
so that the unreliable world can be passed through this decentralized meta layer.
And it can coexist with the reliable chain, the on chain world.
Exactly.
It can coexist and in some cases the meta layer might generate it.
So the problem in giving you this straight answer is that there's just such a wide array
of services.
If you were to say, well, Sergey, how do we generate randomness from a data source?
Well, we don't use a data source to generate the randomness.
That's the type of service that can be generated in an Oracle network itself.
And so there will be certain computations that Oracle networks themselves generate themselves
to augment and improve blockchains.
And it is actually the goal of Oracles to consistently do that.
So if you were to think about the stack in a very generic high level, you would see blockchains
or databases.
They're basically the data structures that retain a lot of information in this transparent,
highly reliable form.
Smart contract code is the application logic.
It is the logic under which all of this kind of activity occurs, storing data in the data
structure in the blockchain as a database in a certain conceptualization of it.
And then Oracles and Oracle networks are all the services that are used by the application
code.
So by analogy, let's take Uber.
Uber, initially, some core code goes and gets the GPS API from Google Maps about the user's
location, sends a message to the user through Twilio, pays the driver through Stripe.
If those services weren't available to the people who made Uber, they wouldn't have
made Uber, right?
Because they would have written their core code on some database and then they would
have had to make a geolocation company, a telecom messaging company, and the global
payments company.
And they wouldn't have done that because it's too hard.
And that's the weird scenario that a lot of people in our industry are in.
And that's the problem that Oracles and Oracle networks fix is they provide these decentralized
services to take this developer ecosystem, the blockchain and smart contract developer
ecosystem from, hey, I can have a database and write some application logic about tokenization
and voting and private key signing, all of which is super useful and is a critical foundation.
But now, if you just layer on all the world services, whether that's market data, weather
data, randomness, suddenly people can build DeFi, fraud proof gaming, fraud proof global
trade, fraud proof ad networks.
And that's why this world of decentralized services and decentralized Oracle networks
is particularly, in my opinion, important to our industry.
Yeah, it's funny.
You talk about that the current sort of decentralized world of DeFi, but decentralized services world
is primarily just tokens and it's basically just financial transactions.
And the kind of thing, the reason why it's super exciting, the kind of thing you do with
Chainlink and Oracle networks is that you can basically open up the whole world of services
to this kind of decentralized smart contract world.
I mean, you're talking about just orders of magnitude, greater impact financially and
just socially and philosophically.
Are there interesting near term and long term applications that excite you?
Yeah, there's a lot that excites me and that is how I think about it, that it's not just
about we made a decentralized Oracle network.
It's about we made a decentralized service or collection of services that's going from
hundreds to thousands and then people are able to build the hybrid smart contracts,
which I think will redefine what our industry is about.
Because for example, for the people that only learned about blockchains through the lens
of NFTs, they understand blockchains through NFTs, not through speculative tokens or bitcoins.
And I think that will continue.
I think the use cases that excite me, they vary between the developed world's economies
and emerging markets.
I think in the developed world, what you will see is that transparency, creating a new level
of information for how markets work and the risk that is in markets and kind of the dynamics
that put the global financial system at systemic financial risk like 2008.
And my hope is that all of this infrastructure will soften the boom and bust cycles by making
information immediately available to all market participants, which is by the way, what all
market participants want, except for the very, very, very small minority that are able to
game the system and their benefit and benefit from booms but avoid busts because of their
asymmetric access to information, which really everybody should have and which this technically
solves.
I think in the process of doing that, and which is happening, I think right about now,
you see a polishing of the technology such that it can be made available to emerging
markets. And on a personal level, I feel that the emerging markets will benefit much more
from this technology, just like the emerging markets benefit much more from the internet
or from those $50 Android phones that people can have because it's such a massive shift
in how people's lives work.
I have always had access to books and a library, which has been fantastic and very important.
But there are places in the world where people don't have libraries, but now they have the
internet and a $50 Android phone and they can watch the same Stanford lecture that I
watch.
I mean, that's kind of mind blowing realistically, right?
They just went from zero to one in a very, very dramatic way.
I think all of these smart contracts and in my case, I think the one that I seem to keep
coming back to is crop insurance, partly because it doesn't have a tokenization component,
partly because it's actually much more important than it might seem.
What is crop insurance?
Right. So this is the nature of why it's sometimes hard to see the full value of what
our industry does because it solves all these kinds of back end problems that we don't have,
right?
So crop insurance is if I own a farm and it doesn't rain, I get an insurance payout,
so I don't need to close down my farm.
Because if it didn't rain, I don't have crops, right?
So people in the developed world can get crop insurance and there's all kinds of systems
that basically pay them out and then they can argue with the insurance company if they
don't get paid out properly and whatever.
And this allows people to smooth out risk.
In fact, a lot of the global options markets were about this, right?
They were initially about people selling their produce or their crops ahead of time so that
if there was a risk of drought, they weren't impacted by it, right?
And that's where a lot of options trading and all this kind of stuff came from, even
though it's now turned into this kind of global casino.
But in the emerging market, there are literally people that if they don't have rain for two
seasons, they need to close down their farm and become a migrant worker of some kind.
And now they have a $50 Android phone where they can read Wikipedia, but they're still
decades away from an insurance company coming to their geography and offering them insurance
because their local legal system simply doesn't allow that type of thing to exist.
No insurance company is going to go and create an insurance entity and offer them insurance
because the levels of fraud and the ability to resolve that fraud through courts would
just not exist.
So now these people have to wait for decades to have this very basic form of financial
protection or something like a bank account even.
And with this technology, they don't, right?
So with this technology, if I have a $50 Android phone and the smart contract has data from
satellites or weather stations about the weather conditions in the geography that my farm
is in, I can put value into the smart contract and the smart contract will automatically
pay me back out at my Android phone.
And guess what?
I just leapfrogged past my corrupt government not being able to provide a legal infrastructure
to create insurance.
I just leapfrogged past dealing with insurance companies that will probably price gouge me
and often not pay out.
And I leapfrogged into the world of hyper reliable kind of guaranteed smart contract
outcomes that are as good or in many cases better than what farmers in all other parts
of the world have.
And this type of dynamic for the emerging markets of creating a way for people to control
and manage risk in their economic life, I think extends way past insurance.
It extends to them having bank accounts to combat local inflation.
It extends to them being able to sell their goods on the global free market of global
trade without middleman.
It extends to all these things that we don't really care about, right?
Because we're not farmers, but are unbelievably impactful for people that don't have a bank
account and their inflation rate in their country is double digits or their farm completely
depends on rain or their livelihood completely depends on their ability to sell goods.
And they can't sell those goods because there's a middleman who essentially controls all
the trust relationships.
But now now we have the Internet and smart contracts and that might not have to be the
case in the next five or 10 years.
Yes.
So that definitely has a quality of life impact on the particular farmer's life.
But I suspect it has a huge like down the line ripple effect on the whole supply chain.
So if you think about farmers, but any other people that produce things that are part of
a large logistics network, like supply chain network, that means when you increase reliability,
you sort of increase transparency and control, but where anyone know in that supply chain
network can formalize the way it operates in its agreements with others, then you could
just have a very like at scale, transformative effect on how people that down the line use
the services that you provide, the products that you create operate.
So like it's almost hard to imagine the possible ways it might transform the world.
I wonder how much friction there is in the system, I guess, currently that smart contracts
might remove.
That's almost unknown.
You can sort of hypothesize and stuff.
But I wonder, I've seen enough bureaucracy in my life to know that smart contracts in
many cases would remove bureaucracy.
And I wonder how the world will be once you remove much of the bureaucracy.
Coming from the Soviet Union, where I just have seen the life sucked out of the innovative
spirit of human nature by bureaucracy, I wonder the kind of amazing world that could
be created once bureaucracy is removed.
Yeah, I think it's fascinating how the world can evolve.
I think this extends a lot further than people think into many, many different parts of the
global economy.
It might start with NFTs for art, or it might start with DeFi, or it might start with fraud
proof ad networks next.
We don't know what it's going to go to next.
But I think the implication of people being in a system of contracts that holds them accountable
and guarantees contractual outcomes, regardless of a local legal system, is something that
I think extends to the supply chain.
You can prove that goods were sourced in an ethical way, and you can prove that in
a way that can't be gained.
That'll change buying power and supplier power and how people produce goods that we all
consume.
And then on the political level, I personally think that in a number of decades, we could
literally be in a place where politicians can commit to a certain set of smart contract
kind of budget, definitional kind of results.
For example, we discovered oil, I promised as a politician, I'm going to take the oil
and I'm going to redistribute it to all of you.
Well, that's wonderful.
That's a great idea.
Sounds very nice when you're running for office.
Why don't we codify that in a smart contract?
And why don't we put those conditions very solidly on a blockchain?
And then once you've been elected, we'll just turn that one on, and it'll distribute the
money just like you said, and everything will be fine.
I personally think that this new level of systems that allows trustworthy collaboration
between everybody, between supply chain partners, ad network users, the financial system, insurance
companies and farmers, all of these are just interactions that require a trusted entity,
or in this case, a trusted piece of code to orchestrate the interaction in the way that
everyone agrees.
Yeah.
One of the things that makes the United States fascinating is the founding documents.
And it's fascinating to think of us moving into the new in the 21st century to a digital
version of that.
To the constitution, a smart constitution, no offense to the paper constitution.
And that would have transformative effects on politicians and governments holding people
accountable.
Oh man, that's so exciting to think that we might enforce accountability through the
smart contract process.
Exactly.
Why can't that happen?
Anything that we could codify into a smart contract, and anything that we all agree
is the way the world should work.
And then anything that we can get proof about, anything that a system somewhere could tell
us happened, those are the pieces of the puzzle.
We need a trusted piece of code.
We need to have agreement that that's how the world should work, and we need a system
that'll tell that trusted piece of code what happened.
As long as we have those three things, we can theoretically codify any set of agreements
about anything where those three properties take hold.
I wonder if you can apply that to like military conflict and so on.
Recently, the Biden announced that we're going to pull off from Afghanistan after 20 years
in the war.
I wonder, there's a lot of debacles around war in Afghanistan and invasion of Iraq,
all those kinds of things.
I wonder if that was instead formulated as a smart contract.
That might have actually huge impact on the way we do conflict.
You think of a smart contract as a kind of win, win situation where you're doing financial
transactions or something like that, but you could see that also about military conflict
or whenever two nations are at tension with each other, different scales of conflict that
you could have conflict codified.
That would potentially resolve conflict much faster because there's honest transparency
and control within that conflict because there's conflict in this world.
Again, very inspiring to think about the kind of effects you might have on the negative
kinds of contracts, on the tense, painful kinds of contracts.
I haven't thought about that as much as actually kind of scary the stuff you're thinking through
now with like the war contracts or something.
That's not in the white paper.
We don't have anything about war contracts or anything.
Again, this is the Russian, we're both Russian, but I'm a little more Russian in the suffering
side, maybe I read way too much Dostoevsky and military kind of ideas, but anyway, holding
politicians accountable in all forms, I think is really powerful.
Is there something you could say as a small aside on how smart contracts actually work
if we look at the code?
Is there some nice way to say technically, what is a smart contract?
What does it mean to codify these agreements, the actual process for people who might not
at all be familiar?
I think you just write it into code that operates in this kind of decentralized infrastructure.
You usually write code that runs in a central server somewhere.
Now you write code that runs across a lot of different machines in this decentralized
way.
Then after you write it, you need services, and that's where oracles come in.
They provide all the services.
Just like you would be writing code in Web 2.0 land, running it on a server somewhere
and using an API.
Here you'd be writing code, putting it on a decentralized infrastructure like a blockchain
or a smart contract platform like Ethereum, and then you would be using various services
in the form of oracles.
They'll just be called oracles or decentralized services instead of APIs.
You're basically composing the same type of architecture, except it's hyper reliable.
At the moment, it's a little bit less efficient because there's an early stage to our industry,
but it provides this extreme level of reliability and transparency, which for certain use cases
is an absolute critical component and is completely reinventing how they work.
I think people should look at what are the use cases where that trust dynamic can be
so heavily improved, and that's probably the ones where this is maybe initially useful.
But I mean, just to emphasize, I don't think people realize when you say code that we're
talking about non obfuscated actual program, you can read it, you can understand it.
And there's something about, maybe this is my computer science perspective, like software
engineering perspective, but there's something about the formalism of programming languages
which enforces simplicity and clarity and transparency.
And because it's seen to everybody, I mean, simplicity is enforced.
There's something about natural language, like language, as written in the Constitution,
for example, where there's so many interpretations.
With the nice thing about programs, there's not going to be a huge number of books written
about what was meant by this particular line, because it's pretty clear.
Programming languages have a clarity to them that natural language does not.
They don't have ambiguity, which I think it's important to pause on because it's really
powerful.
It's really difficult to think about.
I think we live in a world where all the philosophers and legal minds don't know how
to program.
So I think not all, most don't.
And so we don't often see the philosophical impact of this kind of idea that the agreements
between humans can be written in a programming language.
That's a really transformative idea.
That I mean, yeah, it's an idea that's not just technical, it's not just financial,
it's philosophical, it's rethinking human nature from a digital perspective.
What is human civilization?
It's interaction between humans.
And rethinking that interaction as a digital interaction that is managed by programming
languages, by programs, by code, I mean, that's fascinating.
That we'll look back at this time potentially as one where us little descendants of apes
did not realize how important this moment in history is.
Human beings might be totally different a century from now because we codified the interaction
between humans.
We might have more of an impact than anything else we do today.
You think about the impact of the internet, one of the cool things is digitization of
data, but we have not yet integrated the tools, the mechanisms fully that use that data and
interact with humans yet.
And that's what smart contracts do.
I wonder if you think about the role of artificial intelligence in all of this because your smart
contracts are kind of agreements, maybe you disagree with this, but at least the way I'm
thinking about it is the agreements between humans or groups of humans.
But it seems like because everything's operating in the digital space that you can integrate
nonhumans into this or AI systems that help out humans, managed by humans, like what do
you think about a world of hybrid smart contracts codifying agreements between hybrid intelligent
being networks of humans and AI systems?
Yeah.
I think that makes perfect sense.
In terms of AI, I'm not an expert, right?
So it might be a bit simplistic or naive my ideas in this field.
I think everyone saw the Terminator movie, right?
Everybody kind of saw the Terminator movie in the 90s and it was like, this is really
scary.
I personally think AI is amazing and makes perfect sense.
I think it will evolve to a place where people have, just to understand, I work in the world
of trust issues, right?
I work in the world of how can technology solve trust and collaboration issues using
encryption, using cryptographically guaranteed systems, using decentralized infrastructure,
right?
So that's the world that I've been inhabiting for many, many years now, building smart contracts
for seven or eight, doing stuff before that.
It's kind of what I'm focused on.
So I view AI through that same lens and my brain naturally asks, well, what is the trust
issue that people might have with AI and my natural kind of response as well?
Let's say AI continues to be built and improve.
At some point, I have no clue where we are on this now.
I've seen different ideas that were very far from this.
I've seen other ideas very close to this.
At a certain point, we'd arrive at a place with AI where we would be a little bit worried
about just how much it could do, right?
We might be worried that AI could do things we don't want it to do, but we still want
to give AI a level of control over our lives, right?
So in my world, that's a trust issue.
And the way that that trust issue would be solved with blockchains is actually very straightforward
and I think in its simplicity, quite powerful.
You could have an AI that has an ability to do and control key parts of your and our lives,
right?
But then you could limit it with private keys and blockchains and create certain guardrails
and firm kind of walls and limits to what the AI could never go past, assuming that
encryption, right, that encryption continues to work, right?
And assuming that if it's not that AI's specialization to break encryption, that it wouldn't be able
to do that, right?
So if you have an AI that controls something very important, whatever it is, shipping or
something in defense or something in the financial system, whatever it is, but you're sitting
there and you're kind of worried, hey, this thing is unbelievable, it's coming up with
things we wouldn't have thought of in 100 years, but maybe it's a little too unbelievable.
How do you limit it?
Well, if you bake in private keys and you bake in these kind of blockchain based limitations,
you can create the conditions beyond which an AI could never act.
And those could once again be codified in the very specific unambiguous terms in which
you described, which once again in my trust issue focused world would solve the trust
issue for users and make them comfortable with using the AI or ceding control to the
AI, which I think in more advanced versions of AI will continue to be a concern, right?
This is fascinating.
So smart contracts actually provide a mechanism for human supervision of AI systems.
With encryption, very encryption heavy.
So it's not about like, is it smarter than us?
It's about, will the encryption hold up?
So that's based on the assumption that the encryption holds up.
I think that's a safe assumption we can get into that whole discussion.
But from quantum computing, but cracking encryption is very difficult.
That's a whole other discussion.
I think we're safe on the safe ground for quite a long time, assuming encryption holds.
There's a space that is at the cutting edge of general intelligence research in the AI
community, which is the space of program synthesis or AI generating programs.
That's different than what you're referring to is AI being able to generate smart contracts.
And that to me is kind of fascinating to think of, especially two AI systems between each
other generating contracts, sort of almost creating a world where most of the contracts
are between non human beings.
I think an AI system, as I think about it, and once again, this is not my field.
This is something I might watch a YouTube video on or just see something interesting
about at some point.
I think if I were to just reason through it even now, I think the highly deterministic
and guaranteed nature of smart contracts would probably be preferable to an AI because I'm
guessing an AI would have a lot of problems with dealing with the human element of how
contracts work today.
So an AI, for example, couldn't pick up the phone and call Dave at a bank to do a derivative
and discuss with Dave and have a call with him and have a conversation and get him comfortable
and tell him it's going to be fine and smooth out all the weird social cues that have to
do with making certain derivatives.
I'm assuming that that's a pretty complicated neural map AI kind of problem.
So if I think about it, the deterministic guaranteed nature of smart contracts and assuming
they're accessible to AIs could actually, interestingly enough, be the format that they
prefer to codify their relationship with non AI systems and very possibly other AI systems
because it's pretty guaranteed, all the other types of contracts that an AI could go out
there and seek to do would require some language processing around the law.
And I think, I don't know if this is a term, probably not a smart AI or a good AI or whatever
the term is for a high quality AI would probably realize some of the limitations and the risks.
Yeah.
AI definitely dislikes ambiguity and would prefer the deterministic nature of smart contracts.
I do wonder about this particular problem and maybe you could speak to it of how smart
contracts can take over certain industries in a sense or how certain industries can convert
their sets of agreements into smart contracts, which is, you mentioned that we're talking
today from the bank, you know, many of our laws, many of our agreements are currently
through natural language, through words.
And so there is a process of mapping that has to occur in order to convert the legal
agreements, legal contracts of today to smart contracts that, by the way, AI may be able
to help with, but as a by way of question, how do you think we convert the legal contracts
on which many industries currently function today or not even legal contracts, but ambiguous
kind of agreements, maybe they're loose sometimes into more formal deterministic agreements
that are represented by smart contracts?
So I think there's two, maybe two sides to this.
I think the first one is actually not a huge problem where you have things like that is
the master agreement for derivatives or you have these agreements that basically already
reference a system somewhere, right?
Like for example, many legal agreements already accept e signature.
And so they're saying, Hey, I'm going to use this computing system over here around signatures
and I'm going to consider and there's laws around that and there's clauses that say signatures
good enough for this agreement.
I actually don't think this is a big problem for the vast majority of legal agreements
that use systems already, right?
So what you'll do is you'll swap out one repository or one or one set of contract system
of contract settlement and you'll just say, Hey, this blockchain system over here is my
new system of contract settlement, whatever it says is the state of the agreement instead
of the centralized system over there, right?
And so there's actually a huge amount of agreements that are already able to do that.
And I think we'll do that.
I think there's another side to your question, which is the amount of agreements that are
very ambiguous, that can be turned into smart contracts.
And I think the limitation there is twofold.
First of all, like you said earlier, the highly reliable smart contract and the lack of opaqueness
and the clarity of smart contracts is very high and very powerful and very clear.
And it's, in my opinion, going to be much, much easier to take a smart contract and turn
it into a set of natural language explanations and just say, Hey, you know, this is what
this does, right?
So I think that many contracts are, and even now in decentralized finance and DeFi and
in decentralized insurance, they're basically being rebuilt in this format.
And that rebuilding will make them clearer, like you said, and then restating those in
natural language and explaining to people, well, you know, if the weather does this,
I think it'll actually be a lot simpler to explain to people what the contract is about.
Especially mapping smart contracts, it's a natural language, I didn't even think about
that.
You're saying that's doable and natural and easy to do.
Because there's so much clear, right?
There's that forced clarity that you talked about.
I think the second aspect of this problem is the nuance around what contracts can be
made unambiguous.
And I think that comes down to, often comes down to proving what happened, which is where
Oracle Networks and decentralized Oracle Networks and Chainlink would come in.
And our experience there is quite extensive over the many years that we've worked on many
different contract types.
I think what it fundamentally comes down to is whether there is data.
So we're not going to be able to make a hybrid smart contract about whether somebody painted
your house the right color blue.
We're just not going to be doing that because there's no data feed that tells us that your
house was painted blue or that it was the right color of blue, you know, unless somebody
sets up a drone with a color analysis tool and they generate that data.
Which by the way, it could be possible, right?
If there's enough demand, then the service would be created that has drones flying around
that's telling you about the colors of, you know, all this kind of stuff.
So if there's actual demand that that would be created.
And because there'd be value to connect that data feed to the smart contracts and so on.
I think you have it unbelievably right because there are already insurance companies that
use drones to monitor construction sites from overhead and see how many people are wearing
hard hats.
And if the percentage of people wearing hard hats isn't sufficiently high, then, you know,
the policy is voided.
And so in that case, there is a data source and that data source can be put into a hybrid
smart contract.
So the limitation of hybrid smart contracts is, is there a data source or a set of data
sources to create definitive truth, to settle the contract and eliminate ambiguity.
And then as you said, I think as people realize that smart contracts are a format in which
they can form agreement about things like that insurance product around, you know, how
many people are wearing hard hats.
If I'm the construction site owner, well, you know, I would really like a guarantee
that your insurance policy is going to pay me out if everyone is wearing hard hats.
And in that case, there is demand for the data and people will generate the data.
And I actually think the insurance industry is interestingly a precursor of this because
they're so data driven.
You already see insurance companies paying IOT companies to put data into their customers
infrastructure at the cost of the insurance company to generate the data that the insurance
company uses to make a policy for the customer.
So you basically already have people who really want to price data into their agreements when
they're sufficiently high value paying for their own customers to get data sensors into
their infrastructure.
And I think as smart contracts become more of a requested format or data driven contracts
become more of a format, there will be a growing demand about proving what happened through
data.
So it'll be motivating totally new data fees being created.
By the way, the insurance industry broadly, the revolutions there will be huge.
I've worked quite a bit with autonomous vehicles, semi autonomous and just vehicles in general.
The insurance industry that by the way makes a huge amount of money but is using very crappy
data fees revolutionizing how like not by crap, I mean very crude, like literally the
insurance is based on things like age, gender, like basic demographic information as opposed
to really high resolution information about you as an individual, which you may or may
not want to provide.
So you can choose from an individual perspective to provide a data feed and there like the power
of insurance to enable the individual to empower the individual could be huge because ultimately
smart contracts motivate the use of data, the creation of new data feeds, but leveraging
the whatever service it provides in truth as opposed to some kind of very loose notion
of who you are.
So I'm not again not sure how that would change things in terms of the fundamental experience
of life because I think we all rely on insurance not just in business but in life and grounding
that insurance and more and more accurate representation of reality might just have transformative
effects in society.
Well just to mention one quick thing that you said where I noticed another trust issue
you said the user might not want to share their data.
So what you could actually do and what we've already worked on is you can have a smart
contract that holds the data and evaluates the data of the user without sharing it with
the insurance company.
And the insurance company knows that the smart contract will evaluate it according to the
policy they don't need the data and the user can provide the data knowing it will never
touch the insurance company because it's only provided to the smart contract.
And suddenly you've solved another trust issue because an autonomous piece of code can evaluate
information separately from the interests of both of the counterparties.
And so this is the recurring theme I think you're seeing this recurring theme where there's
a trust issue people can't use a system they can't collaborate they can't share information
that would make a better agreement for both of them they can't you know solve a risk in
their daily life they can't participate in a market they can't have a bank account because
nobody will give it to them because you know they can't give it to them in that legal system.
And once you have an autonomous piece of code that can also know what's going on thanks
to Oracle Networks and that combination of the code and the Oracle Network for the hybrid
smart contract the same pattern just recurs it's it's really the same pattern and and
this is why I keep saying trust issues it's because I basically almost every contractual
trust issue that I see where there is a piece of data to prove and settle the trust issue
in a way that works for both parties.
There is no reason not to use an autonomous highly reliable contract and piece of code
and I have to tell you I've seen this in a lot of different industries I've seen it insurance
ad networks global finance global trade those are all multi trillion dollar industries and
then there are there are other smaller industries like even even one of the first smart contracts
we worked on many years ago was for search engine optimization firms where they would
tell you hey I'm going to raise your search engine ranking give me the money and people
wouldn't want to give them the money because they never knew if they were going to do it
and then the search engine firm doesn't want to do any work thinking they'll never get
any money.
So we just came initially even came up with a system where you could put Bitcoin into
a smart contract and it would be released based on whether the search rank of a website
got to a certain level on Google for a certain keyword right.
And so the trust problem was solved but it's just the same story right it's kind of like
trust issues around AI trust issues around financial products trust issues around insurance
trust issues around social media whatever it is I think that's what people looking at
this industry really need to understand and once they do understand they realize what
this is all about this is about redefining how everyone collaborates with everyone about
everything where we can prove something through data.
You've mentioned confidentiality and privacy that you don't the parties don't need to
necessarily know private data in this interaction you talk about confidentiality in the in the
white paper for Chainlink 2.0 can you talk more about how to achieve confidentiality
in this process.
Sure absolutely so I think you once again need to think of the contract as existing
in two parts right you have the on chain code and then you have this off chain system
called the centralized Oracle network.
So the question is really what portion of the contract should live in what part of these
two systems right.
So if you want to create transparency you should put more information on chain because
that's what blockchains are very good at their public transparent but they don't necessarily
have privacy.
Well those you can see how those two things are a little bit completely diametrically
opposed right.
So I do I do think and I do see blockchains working on on chain encrypted smart contracts
that's very inefficient it has a lot of nuances around it that I think will appear at some
point I think until it appears you have an option of taking a part of the computation
and putting it into the centralized Oracle network.
We actually did an entire paper about this that we presented at Stanford in February
of last year something called Mixacles which basically talks about how you can take an
Oracle network and you can put a portion of the computation into the Oracle network
assuming that you're comfortable with that limited set of nodes knowing what the computation
is and you can actually provide additional confidentiality through special hard work
called trusted execution environments that you that all those nodes are forced to run
so they won't even know what they're operating.
And so at the end of the day if you look at a hybrid smart contract as gaining functionality
from its on chain code and gaining other functionality from its off chain decentralized
Oracle network component you can place the part of the computation that you would like
to be private in the decentralized Oracle network because you can control the set of
nodes you can control the committee of nodes and you can require that they run certain
hardware to keep the information private.
So you could basically make a derivative that or a binary option is the example used in
the Mixacles paper where the payout happened on chain but it was actually impossible to
tell what the outcome of the contract was.
So the outcome of the contract was computed in the centralized Oracle network and then
there was a switch that triggered who received the payment but from who from from the point
of view of analyzing the on chain transactions and seeing who received the payment or what
the outcome of the contract was you couldn't you couldn't derive that you couldn't backward
engineer what that was but the users of that hybrid smart contract still had on chain code
that guaranteed them that as long as the decentralized Oracle network found a certain outcome right
determine the certain outcome that the relevant user would get paid and there was still a place
to put value right.
So there there there is this kind of fundamental tension between confidentiality privacy which
is very important for many contracts which is critical to many contracts and the public
and transparent nature of blockchains which I think eventually will be solved through
encrypted on chain smart contracts that'll take some time I think that'll take years
in my opinion and before we arrive there I think people will put the private portion
into the centralized Oracle network.
Once again going back to what the decentralized Oracle networks do they seek to provide these
services right so the ability to do a privacy preserving computation is perhaps a service
without which a certain type of contract might never come into existence in the form of an
on chain hybrid smart contract and so this is once again what we see the centralized
Oracle networks and decentralized services doing is providing people these tools and
building blocks to compose you know like I'm I'm great at making these derivatives contracts
but I can't make them until unless I can retain the privacy of them and our goal is to provide
the infrastructure that gives you as a developer and as a creator of smart contracts that capability
and what we've seen is that as we provide that capability people create more which is
also really the story of the internet right the story of the internet is it was really
tough to do ecommerce while everything was an HTTP and credit cards were transmitted
publicly and so ecommerce was kind of tough because how am I going to send my credit card
over public unencrypted channels right but the second HTTPS appears ecommerce becomes
a lot easier because I can put in my credit card number and it can be sent over an encrypted
channel and you know it's not at risk and so I can participate in ecommerce as long
as I have a credit card I think those types and I'm sure that was unexpected right I'm
sure at the time that was an unexpected outcome from from that technology and so I think this
is why we sometimes have this focus on privacy because in our work with contracts and their
transition into this hybrid smart contract form we see a substantial amount of need for
privacy as an inherent property of these contracts and it'll take a while before that's possible
to create the kind of technology innovation required to do that on chain I know there's
a few ideas that are being floating about but so the currently distributed oracle networks
provide that feature which is essential to many contracts what what brings to mind in
this whole space again it might be outside of your expertise but within the world which
I'm passionate about which is machine learning and it seems like very naturally because current
machine learning systems are very data hungry and much of the value mined by companies in
the digital space are from data they often want their data to maintain privacy so you
think about an autonomous vehicle space Tesla is collecting a huge amount of data Waymo is
collecting a huge amount of data it seems like it'll be very beneficial to form contracts
where one could use the data from the other in some kind of privacy preserving way but
also where all the uses of data are codified and you can exchange value cleanly you know
basically contracts over data over machine learning systems use of different data I don't
know do you do you talk to machine learning folks that you use ideas of smart contracts
or is that from outside your interest because it seems like exceptionally applicable set
of when we talk about different services that might be created and revolutionized by smart
especially hybrid smart contracts I think machine learning systems comes to mind to
me in all industries I don't know if you've gotten a chest interact with those folks with
those services I think I think what you're talking about is more data marketplaces in
the data marketplace side of things well this is actually once again very applicable because
there's a trust issue at the end of the day let's say I'm trying to sell you some data
you don't know the quality of the data so you don't know what you want to pay for it
and I can't give you the data for you to determine the quality because I've given you the data
right guess what we need an autonomous impartial agent we need an impartial computational kind
of agent an on chain smart contract with an Oracle network to assess my data to write
to to to basically take random cross section samples of the data assess it for quality assess
it for signal from the algorithm you have which you don't want to share with me because you
don't want to know the algorithm you're working on right you don't want me to know what you
want the data for so now the autonomous agent takes your algorithm keeping it private for
me and takes my data keeping it private from you assesses it on a random cross section
sampling for quality of data returns the scoring back to you allows you to determine a price
and now you and now both you and me know that we've arrived at a fair price for the quality
of my data for what you want to do with it and that's once again from what I've seen
in the in the data marketplaces which are full of people who want that data for these
learning models often for financial markets often for other reasons this is their fundamental
rock problem which basically enough there's a trust issue that is is is getting solved
and I think you can see even on the face of it once that trust issue is solved those markets
can work a lot better right I don't need to know your algorithm you don't need to know
my data we both know that the autonomous agent is not under either of our control and gave
us a fair assessment and a fair price and and that's it and we're all very comfortable
with with that we I could even make conditions that your algorithm isn't analyzing the data
for something I don't want you to analyze it for or you could make conditions that the
data has to have you know any number of properties and once again you haven't leaked any signal
to me and I haven't leaked any see any data to you which is once again just another type
of trust issue that that all of this saw so it's the same pattern if you work in this
industry long enough or if you really look at these use cases long enough you'll simply
come to the question and this is the useful question what is the trust issue this is solving
and then if you can get an answer to that question on a case by case basis that's when
you'll understand why blockchains are relevant and then once you do that with enough use
cases it becomes you know it becomes a little bit mind blank you've mentioned trust quite
a bit you also mentioned trust minimization in the chain link white paper can we dig into
trust a little bit more what is the nature of trust that you think about any smart contracts
what is trust minimization how do we accomplish achieve trust minimization sure sure I think
it's important maybe to have a conception of what the alternative is right what is
the reliable trust minimized off chain and on chain computation and alternative to so
this is this is just kind of how I how I see the world in these two in these two camps
one camp is the traditional what I call brand based or paper guarantee camp and this is the
world as as pretty much most or all people know it today this is the world where there
is a bank logo or insurance company logo or some kind of logo there's a very big building
with marble arches and columns you know it's the biggest building in the town is bigger
than the church and everybody feels very good everybody is that such a nice logo it's such
a big building why don't I give them my my money why don't I interact with them on the
basis of any kind of agreement and that's good and that that is definitely better than
that not being there and that is definitely a huge improvement for how people you know
conduct commerce you know letters of credit from from branded entities are very important
for global trade to take place in in the early stages of global trade so that's good but
it is fundamentally just a paper agreement with a legal framework behind it and if the
paper agreement you have would say Robin Hood or somebody else suddenly has to change well
it changes and you can't really do anything about it you won't be able to change anything
about what happened there there's some long terms of service there's some other agreements
around all this stuff at at the end of the day that's the brand based and paper guarantee
world where it's all very vague and opaque and you're kind of hoping for the best because
there's a nice logo it's been around a hundred years a lot of marble put a lot of big building
lots of marbles this is this is why banks have such nice buildings right it's not because
they want to spend money on buildings it's to create confidence in in them as an entity
in order for people to transact through them right this is why all these kind of go go
to cities that had gold rushes go to cities that needed banking as as a service in certain
time periods they're the most beautiful buildings at least in the United States so this is the
brand based paper guarantee model for which up until now there has never been an alternative
right so up until now if you had a bad experience with a bank or insurance company or some from
some logo somewhere you would only have one option your option would be to go across the
road and down the block to another building with another color of marble and another set
of agreements that are fundamentally still paper brand agreements right now for the first
time you have mathematical agreements you have mad at mathematically guaranteed encryption
secured decentralized infrastructure powered agreements right this is really the shift
this is really the comparison and the alternative through which people should view all of this
in my opinion because there's once again this conception that everything is fine everything
works very well well it does it works fine and very well as long as nothing goes wrong
and then in the cases when things go wrong which they pretty much invariably at some
point do then you find out that well you know turns out they don't have to pay me or turns
out I can't trade or turns out the ATMs can be locked up and only give me 66 euros per
day whether I'm a business or an individual like what happened in Greece a few years ago
right and the the reality is that once that becomes a strong enough kind of realization
for people I think they will all just migrate to mathematically guaranteed contracts because
why why wouldn't you so in in the world of mathematically guaranteed contracts kind of
how do we and cryptographically secured and decentralized infrastructure powered how do
we how do we evolve into that world well at the end of the day it comes down to consensus
right it comes down to an in a collection of independent nodes a collection of provably
independent computing systems arriving at the same conclusion impartially that conclusion
might be the transaction is valid between address a and address b address a has one
bitcoin wants to send it to address b now address b has one bitcoin right so that's
one degree of validation it has certain cryptographic primitives that are used certain levels of
cryptography encryption and other and other methods that basically provide clarity and
and those guarantees but fundamentally it's this level of consensus that multiple independent
computing systems came to the same conclusion verified that conclusion and created a sense
of finality created a final state that is globally considered to be the state of a transaction
and that is how it's achieved right so it's is achieved by users looking at these mathematical
contract systems and saying you know if I have money in a bank there's one single person who
controls that money that's the bank they could choose to give me my money or choose not to give
you my money and that's great but maybe there's a percentage of what I own that I want to put
into another system where there's thousands of independent computing systems that are
promising me you know with the help of cryptographic primitives that I will be able to always have
access to this whatever this is whatever this you know token is I will at least or the very
least I will always have unfettered complete control and access to it so you know that's
one example another example is hey we have a hybrid smart contract for something like
crop insurance I as the user evaluate where this smart contract runs oh wow the smart contract
runs on ethereum great thousands of nodes lots of computational security hash power so on and so
on then I look at oh well what triggers the contract oh there's this oracle network okay it's
composed of 25 nodes or 15 nodes gets data from five different weather stations you know I'm
comfortable with that I have a certain level of comfort with that hybrid smart contract and its
ability to provide me consensus about the transaction once the contract knows what's
happened and I'm comfortable with the consensus around the event that controls the contract
right because once again that event is what determines what happens with the contract
and if the contract is super well written it doesn't matter if the event isn't reliable
right so now I've made this determination I've gotten all this clear transparent information
about this system that combines the contract code with a decentralized oracle network and
I've made my decision to participate in this decentralized insurance kind of crop insurance
policy I've sent the bitcoin or the stablecoin or whatever I have on my on my android phone
and then time goes by and let's say it doesn't rain lo and behold the smart contract returned
the the relevant amount from the policy back to me I continue my life as as as a farmer
and by the way the fact that that happened contributes reputation and contributes proof
back to both the contract as something that it can prove to other people that it has settled
and the oracle network as something that can prove that it has properly assessed reality
or properly triggered a contract and this is where there's you know one of many network
effects where the more that smart contracts and oracle networks are used they they themselves
generate this immutable on chain data that proves their value and reliability and improving
more and more of that in more and more kind of use cases and more and more variants of
the same contract they arrive at a greater body of proof that they like I am the decentralized
cropping the decentralized insurance contract for crop insurance used by a million users
and my failure rate is non existent or really low and here's my oracle network and by the way
it's also settled a million of these and so it's not the logo right it's not hey what nice what a
nice logo you have on top of a building above above a train terminal or something it's much more
it's much more hey there's a million people there's a million separate contracts that got settled
correctly I have all the proof that I could ever need about that and it's it's not something
that's very easy to game right because real value was at stake real value was was moved around
and so I I think once again the transparency aspect comes in where you're able to prove
that the cryptographically enforced contracts are better that said you can still integrate the
traditional banks as long as you create a data feed on the amount of marble that's that's included
so if that's valuable to you in terms of reputation you can still integrate the marble the amount of
marble that and the the size of the logo we can still keep the banks around I think we will I
I think what'll happen with the banks and all the insurance companies by the way is not that
they'll all just die or something I think it'll be just like the internet there'll be some of
them that adopt this yeah and some of them that don't and some of them to do it faster some of
them to do it slower and and that's an economic decision that they'll make I think their whole
question is is this a foregone conclusion I mean I think you know my answer my answer is yes this
is definitely going to be happening I think they still have a question of you know is this going
to change my industry but I'm seeing a definite shift in in people's understanding and I think
that shift is going to accelerate rapidly as one or two of them of their competitors through their
hat in the smart contract ring and say well I have I have smart contracts I guarantee my
outcomes to you what do they do for you you know it's risky just use mine and the second some of
them start losing business because of that they're gonna they're gonna move very quickly because
that's what all of their compensation structures and their all their goal planning structures are
based around they're based around what is losing us business or getting us business yeah it's
fascinating organizationally though to think about banks they're very old school and their ability
to move quickly is questionable to me I just look at basic uh online banking like how good banks
are creating a a frictionless online experience and I think they're not very good and so that speaks
to the kind of people who are in leadership positions at banks the kind of people they hire
the kind of culture there is so I do wonder if banks will from inside revolutionize themselves
to include smart contracts or whether totally new competitors will have to emerge that basically
create new kinds of banks whether what is the company square I think it's a it comes up out of
nowhere really with cash app and they have bitcoin on cash app whether they will start
incorporating smart contracts and they will revolutionize the the whole banking industry
or whether Bank of America will revolutionize themselves from within I'm skeptical on Bank
of America but you never know it's in general I'm fascinated by how big organizations whether it's
Google and Microsoft or Bank of America pivot hard in a world that's quickly changing I think that
takes bold leadership and a lot of firing and a lot of pain and a lot of meetings where the one
asshole brings up the from first principles idea that you know what the ways we've been doing stuff
in the past require you know we need to throw that out and do stuff totally differently I
I know a lot of those assholes in in a lot of these different industries first of all I think
they're getting listened to more and second of all I think all of these places as I look at it more
and more I think they have a fundamental line of business that they try to protect and then
everybody's compensation and everybody's metrics and goals is focused around that line of business
so the second that things begin to impact that then everybody will be in a senior meeting
and and that asshole will be quite listened to because he will have the only thoughtful
explanation as to why this is happening how how things will evolve from there I actually
don't know because I you know that hasn't been the case yet but my my thinking is that there
will be people who don't want to cannibalize certain parts of their business or don't want to
change certain parts of their business and then there will be people who say look I think this
is how the world is going to work we're going to make a very very heavy kind of set of commitments
to put resources towards this I already see that but with with a few banks working working on various
blockchain based systems but granted they've been working on those for years so I I I think all of
this comes down to these these kind of quarterly earnings calls where somebody asks them hey you
know I saw that bank over there once the blockchain bond or or a smart contract derivative platform
and I also saw that they made you know ten billion dollars in revenues or or ten billion
dollars in volume or whatever it is from from that what's your plan right on the earnings call
and I promise you by the next earnings call there's a plan and then the question on the next one
is but when's the plan going to happen and then by the next earnings call it's a plan is happening
and and that's that's that's what these people are sensitive to that's what these organizations are
structured around it's not completely economically like disconnected right they have this core business
they want to protect it I understand that that idea but I think the the problem with that is
sometimes it requires it requires this myopic focus right and and that's what all all the innovation
stuff is about every time somebody at a corporate entity is about innovation they're they're trying
to sidestep this but but once again the incentives to maintain whatever the core business is is so
strong that the innovation people even even though they they are there um you know they get I think
they get a phone call and go like what are we doing for this and and and the ones that actually
did good work and got ready to do something for this have have done their you know their employer
and their organization a very positive service whereas the ones that aren't ready I mean you know
they'll make up something and you know maybe they're really smart and they'll get it together I don't
I don't know can we talk about tokens a little bit generally speaking there's been a meteoric
rise of a bunch of different tokens we could just talk about bitcoin and ethereum as examples
bitcoin I think crossed $60,000 in value what are your thoughts in general on this rise what's
the future of bitcoin what's the future of ethereum there's there's the total value locked metric
that I think generalizes the different kind of value of these of these tokens
means what is the future value and impact of cryptocurrency look like if we look through
the lens of these tokens I think valuing all these tokens and and determining that isn't
something I'm particularly great at I haven't spent a lot of time on that I've spent the
majority vast majority of my time on building these systems and architecting them and getting
them to fruition and getting them to a place where they operate properly on both the technical
and the crypto economic and in every other in in every other sense I think with bitcoin there is
a certain conception of non governmental fiat money that bitcoin is really the first
creator of right so there's this very powerful idea called fiat money it's basically
more or less a kind of 40 year experiment I think on august 15th of this year is is maybe
I think given the 40th anniversary you know a government can say hey I have a currency
and it's worth something and and here it is in terms of the way that governments have stopped
that in the past is if anyone tries to make another fiat currency in their country they
immediately shut it down right they immediately say hey this is really bad you've done something
really bad it's time for you to stop don't do it anymore and it stops right that's been the history
of non governmental fiat currency bitcoin is really due to its decentralized nature
the first um and possibly in some cases in many people's minds they still the only
true non governmental fiat currency now how powerful is non governmental fiat currency
I have no idea right this is why so it's really as powerful as the ideas that people ascribe to it
it are right so let's say people start saying like right now people are saying hey it's internet
money it's the money of the internet okay great what's that worth I don't know it's probably worth
a lot I have no idea what it's worth but it's worth as an idea as a concept to underpin the fiat
money the let there be aspect of fiat and of bitcoin you basically look at it and you say
yeah internet money okay that could be worth whatever you know 60,000 600,000 great question
right there are other versions of the world right where people say you know um there are
countries that don't have a good fiat currency and I see a lot of people using bitcoin so bitcoin
isn't internet money it's um countries without a good currency money so all the countries without
a good currency now use bitcoin and you know let there be bitcoin as this right as this
conception of bitcoin what's the value of that I don't know that's a great question probably
probably huge amount of value um then there's then there's a further conception of bitcoin as some
you know digital gold there's a scarcity dynamic there's there's all these other kinds of dynamics
what is a portable version of digital gold with some kind of built in built in scarcity
worth you know kind of artificially created scarcity what's that worth I don't know that's
that's a great question I haven't done the analysis on that is the point might be worth a lot what is
it all worth if all three of these things you know flow into the same fiat kind of let there be
bitcoin as these three things conception of bitcoin I don't know what that's worth I also
know what that's worth but could be worth a huge amount so I think what it's it's not I don't think
it's I personally don't think it's super important what I think it's worth or what many other people
think it's worth I don't think that's that's really that important I think what's probably important
is understanding what the societal conception of bitcoin is and how does that societal conception
evolve over time and that interestingly enough doesn't just depend on you know you or me or the
people who made bitcoin or anything else it actually depends on current events so for example if
people suddenly say I'm more and more worried about fiat currency I'm more and more worried
that governmental fiat even if it's the most reliable version of that is not as good as I
thought it was maybe I should go on the PayPal app maybe I should get some bitcoin just in case
what's the world where bitcoin is a certain percentage of everyone's ownership as a hedge
against governmental fiat money not being so good having done the analysis but another example
right here's this conception that's that's the conception so when I look at bitcoin what I see
is a lot of these fascinating conceptions of of what the fiat let there be value of bitcoin is
by the way all of them could be true maybe some of them are true maybe some of them aren't true
and and the fascinating thing is is that I've seen this conception change right so when I started
in the bitcoin space the conception was micropayments the the the the cost of bitcoin is low we'll
have micropayments micropayments are wonderful for machine to machine transactions micropayments
are wonderful the emerging market and that's fine right and and and that was one conception of bitcoin
as let there be bitcoin as micropayments platform right but then the value rose and things changed
there was enough expansion in certain ways and and now the conception has evolved into this other
conception but but at the end of the day I think governments have a very clear set of steps for
directing the public's conception of their fiat right they say our fiat is worth this for these
these these reasons bitcoin doesn't have that bitcoin doesn't have an official bitcoin spokesperson
that goes out and says the non governmental money called bitcoin the non governmental fiat
money called bitcoin has value on the basis of this this this and this here's our fiscal budget
here's our future plans you know our money will continue to be safe and secure and reliable
and so it's what would that hole creates is a is a hole that we all fill right we all basically
come to some vague kind of group understanding that you know bitcoin is worth is worth this because
it is tied let it is tied to um you know let's say all non governmental fiat money comes into
question everybody doubts it possibly due to inflation and everybody says you know this is
nice but i'd like to keep 10 20 percent of my of my wealth in non governmental fiat just in case
um you know what what are those numbers i mean if that happens you know i'm guessing you can add
a few zeros i like how you say i haven't done the analysis as if i'm sure a lot of people have done
quote unquote analysis but it's not it's still speculation nobody can predict the future especially
when so much of it has to do with a large number of people holding an idea in their mind as to the
importance of a particular technology like bitcoin there's a lot of excitement by its possibilities
but the number of zeros you add is uh is an open question and nobody can do a perfect analysis
except uh whoever created this simulation let me ask you this question who is Satoshi Nakamoto
there's quite a few people who suggest that person is you so is it you no who do you think it could
be i don't know who it is i i think if i had to guess it's probably a group of people some of
which might not even be around anymore um you know obviously i'm very grateful to if this is a singular
or a group of people for kicking off this entire industry and making this amazing change in the
world that you know i have the the privilege and luxury of of being part of an in some small way
in the work that i do um i think also this kind of focus on who is satoshi or who isn't satoshi
shouldn't in my opinion matter so much because regardless of who it is that in my opinion should
have no substantial significant effect or bearing on the functioning or the value or the use or the
or the security of of the bitcoin system right so i i think whoever it is they're probably better
off not not not making that public and i think beyond that um whoever it turned out to be shouldn't
matter because it has nothing to do with how the system is made useful or secure or anything else
and so i think that's the um you know that's the point of view that i have now if you were satoshi
nakamoto would you tell me because you said they shouldn't whoever satoshi is you should keep that
private so would you tell it to me or no we're in some kind of weird like a thought experiment here
here if if i was this guy um let me think about this which i'm not by the way i am not yeah but
if you were would you say it um i think probably not i don't see the i i i think that they would
cause a lot of distraction and a lot of weird stuff and so realistically i don't think it would help
anybody or even the person who who discloses it but just to be clear i am not and whoever it is
i think they haven't said anything because they don't want the attention and they don't want the
distraction and they don't want all the problems from this and that's that makes sense to me
conceptually it's fascinating to think if they're still out there and part of the the bitcoin the
cryptocurrency community and um it is inspiring to think that if they're out there that they're not
revealing their identity because it would be a distraction that's kind of inspiring that people
are like that just like george washington a relinquishing powers inspiring because it's
ultimately about the progress of the community now some kind of ego driven attention scheme
again very inspiring the humans that they're best are inspiring what do you think about the
certainty that people in the bitcoin maximus community have about this particular piece
of technology bitcoin is there something interesting that you think that you might want
to say about this community or is it just is what it is i think at the end of the day results speak
for themselves and bitcoin has had an amazing impact on our industry and had has had an amazing
impact on the world and i think you know the result is still that bitcoin is very widely adopted
and driving um the adoption of our industry in many ways so i think it's very difficult for people
to say that you know bitcoin maximus don't have something that they can latch on to and say hey
there's something very real here i i think there's been decisions made by the bitcoin community and
the people who made the bitcoin protocol to focus it on bitcoin and to focus in on the
kind of storing of the ledger of bitcoin and the information about bitcoin and the transaction of
bitcoin and to focus on securing that and i you know i understand why that decision was made to
a certain degree right it was about focus it is it was about getting something worthwhile right
without adding additional features and additional risk and you know that decision is is a decision
that was made and has kind of the benefits of focus and the benefits of a certain amount of
security and a certain amount of guarantees around bitcoin and and what that is and and the
value of that and then it has certain limitations you know as a consequence of of of doing less
or having the system hold data that isn't related to bitcoin or not having the system
hold contracts contractual outcomes or smart contract code so i i think it's just kind of
a decision right and and i i i understand why they're excited and i'm very excited i started
in this industry going to bitcoin meetups and i met a lot of fantastic people libertarian people
that wanted to see the world work differently and shared a lot of my beliefs and a lot of my
points of view and so you know anyone who's been in the industry as long as i have um
has had to come um from the bitcoin ecosystem by virtue of kind of starting out that early
so i have an unbelievable amount of respect and um admiration and gratitude for for bitcoin and
that it exists and everything that it's done and that it birthed this industry there's absolutely
no doubt about that you know at the same time whatever design decisions people make are the
design decisions they make right and so they if you've made a design decision that this ledger
and this thing will be about bitcoin it won't be about colored coins it won't be about op return at
80 bytes it won't be about these other kind of um nuances that you don't want this to be about
then that's fine that's that's fine and that's that's that's a logical decision that's and it's
called focus and focus has a lot of value um and a lot of great um technology products have
focused on something and and and done that and then there's a lot of smart people around bitcoin
building um kind of additional systems that anchor their security within bitcoin and i
think that's an interesting approach that could that could bear fruit i think it'll eventually
require an interaction with a bitcoin protocol in more advanced ways and then there will be another
question of you know what is the design decision for bitcoin is it that bitcoin will be just about
the bitcoin ledger or does bitcoin want to evolve into um you know an anchor for all these other
other systems and and maybe create additional data you know kind of more data on chain on the
bitcoin blockchain related to that so i i'm excited to see how that evolves but until then
kind of results speak for themselves and the results that bitcoin has achieved for our industry
and for itself as you know kind of the dominant cryptocurrency and and the conception of our
industry that people interact with first is obviously very important and something that um
i think really everybody in our industry is grateful for right because without bitcoin
where where where would our industry be and that's obviously something that we we can't forget
what are your thoughts about ethereum in this in the chain link distributed oracle network world
world is a competition is a collaboration is a complementary technology what do you think about
ethereum how much do you think about ethereum what role does it have yeah i i think about a lot i
think it's complete we're completely complementary so there's no competitive dynamics in my opinion
we are completely collaborative and complementary with ethereum and all other blockchains and all
other layer twos that operate a contract right so we do not seek to operate a smart contract we
seek to augment and enable smart contracts to go further in what they're able to do in fact oracle
networks have some value but they don't have nearly as much value in what they do if there
isn't a mission critical system like a smart contract that needs their data right so we've
made our own explicit design decisions in our own and created our own focus around guaranteeing that
smart contracts can go further we've already done that right decentralized finance the the
rate at which we put data is to a degree the rate at which certain decentralized financial
markets grow and as we put more data we see more financial products go live gaming we
provide vrf so we have this kind of focus and it's a very useful useful and valuable kind of
valuable for our industry focus at at the end of the day i think that smart contract platforms
like ethereum made a different set of design decisions from bitcoin and others and they focused
on creating the smart contract capability and and and and they kind of wanted that functionality
to exist and i think since then there's been a number of people that try to improve on that or
try to you know make variants of that from our point of view we want to support smart contracts
in all of their variations and in all of their use cases so one of the things that i personally
like about chainlink is their ability or chainlink's ability the chainlink network's ability to be
useful to many different chains and across many different use cases i'm personally you know a
fan of ethereum ethereum has done a huge amount for our industry as well ethereum took us from a
world where it literally took months to make a new smart contract by being forced to code it into
a protocol you had to go to the protocol developers and you had to say hey i need a dex or i need
some kind of smart contract put it in the protocol itself put it in the actual blockchain mining and
kind of block generation transaction generation protocol that would take months or sometimes
even over a year that was a horrible experience and and and obviously very few people wanted to
participate in that and so very few people made smart contracts which i was not a fan of right
and then ethereum came along and really did a lot of innovative things and introduced this
approach to scriptable smart contracts where you could script all of these different conditions
and i i i found that fascinating before ethereum i found that fascinating once ethereum arrived
i found it fascinating after ethereum launched and i still find it fascinating and i'm i'm i'm
also very grateful to the italic and the ethereum community and and all the core developers there
for taking our industry a step further so i think they absolutely deserve a huge amount of credit
for taking our industry from it takes months to make a really small smart contract to it takes
you know weeks to make a relatively secure relatively advanced piece of on chain code
that anybody can script and people can do audits on and you know that's that's an unbelievable
leap forward for our industry and i'm i'm i'm genuinely grateful to them for that i think the
next step in line with our body of work is how does that scriptable on chain code become more
advanced in its interaction with all of the systems and events in the real world which is in my
opinion the final missing piece of the puzzle right so my body of work the body of work that i'm
involved in would not be where it is right now without bitcoin by any measure it wouldn't even
be where it is now without ethereum and the growth in smart contract development that they've created
and now what what i think is going to happen next is there will be a lot of different smart
contract platforms a lot of different layer twos some of them will be private for enterprise some
of them will be public there will be some public winners in certain geographies for maybe regulation
reasons maybe other reasons there will be other public winners you know the larger internet and
there will be a number of different people building smart contracts in different languages
we are excited and you know i am excited and the chain link community is excited and and
basically there's a lot of i mean for lack of a better word excitement in seeing our industry
graduate to providing more use cases more usable hybrid smart contracts right because once again
it's absolutely amazing that bitcoin created non governmental fiat money it's an unbelievable
innovation and invented the centralized infrastructure and and and birth our industry
it's an unbelievably great achievement an amazing achievement that we now have scriptable smart
contracts through something like ethereum once again monumental achievement in my opinion once
again we still need to look to the future we need to look to how do we take the decentralized
infrastructure concepts that bitcoin initially put forward that ethereum then improved upon and
created into these scriptable smart contract formats and how do we expand that into the world
of real world outcomes to change the global financial industry the global trade industry
the global data marketplace industry you know the and and and many other global industries
you mentioned results speak for themselves and how design decisions have consequences
you've the chain link community have come up with a lot of brilliant designs so how do you think
through the design choices that you're facing where you can't predict the future but you're
trying to create a better future is there something low level introspective advice
that you can give or describe as to how you think through those decisions or high level
how you think about those decisions sure absolutely um i think i think that's a great
question and i think that actually gets to the core of what the chain link network is
supposed to achieve we are supposed to achieve a maximally flexible system so once again this
is the big difference between chain link and oracle networks in general and blockchains in my
opinion blockchains do not seek to be maximally flexible right they say here's my block size
here's the transaction types you can you you can put in those blocks here's the contract language
i have here's here's kind of my blockchain system right here's the here's the fee structure for those
blocks they're going to keep getting you know kind of composed transactions are going to get
put into blocks blocks will get connected and and it'll continue right and that's a very focused
type of system and that's great and that makes sense because it's focused on creating security
for that category of on chain activity which is once again a critical critical part of building
a highly transparent system and something that chain link enables and you know doesn't compete
with and just enables to do more oracle networks conversely have to interact with all the world's
data and provide all the services that blockchains don't provide right so there's kind of a spectrum
on one end of the spectrum you have blockchains that are highly secure highly reliable highly
tamper proof highly transparent but are not very feature rich for example they cannot talk to an
api many of them can't generate randomness they cannot do some kind of privacy preserving
computation so they're very secure and they're these kind of data structures and smart contract
platforms to hold on chain code that can define conditions receive value pay value back out under
conditions and create transparency around all that which makes perfect sense and then there's
oracles and oracle networks that is all the world's data right we're talking about taking
all the world's data and making it consumable for all the world's use cases that have trust issues
so the amount of variability there is absolutely massive right it's like the the decentralized
oracle network and the conditions that that decentralized oracle network needs to meet
is going to vary very widely from an insurance contract to a lending contract to an ad network
contract to the data sales contract that that we discussed to any number of other smart contracts
so really the ability of a decentralized oracle network to flexibly address all of those requirements
is what's necessary so flexibility is the goal whereas with on chain like bitcoin
flexibility is the enemy in a sense that you want security you want the focus there and
in that kind of world design decisions have huge consequences and then if you look at the
distributed oracle network side you want to remove the restrictions of design choices you
want to provide maximum flexibility then so it's a completely separate kind of design framework
it's a slightly different problem right because we're not trying to define
transaction types fitting into blocks on a certain timeline of those blocks being generated
we're trying to say hey there's this world of services or this world of data that's not very
deterministic but it's unbelievably useful to these smart contracts over here and actually
they need it to even exist and we really want them to exist because once they exist it's going to
completely redefine what our whole industry is known for right and defined NFTs are not even the
tip of the iceberg they're like like the snow coming off the top of the iceberg and so our
goal is to create a framework and an infrastructure and a software that allows people to compose
decentralized oracle networks right so initially you can compose a decentralized oracle network
of seven nodes that goes to three data sources to trigger your contract worth a million dollars
and that's where you could start and then let's say your smart contract your DeFi smart contract
goes to a billion dollars well then you need to make some changes right you need to go from seven
nodes to 15 or maybe 31 nodes and you need to go from three data sources to five or seven
and you maybe need to create some some kind of what we call circuit breakers and some other checks
and you need to make sure that the decentralized oracle network comes to consensus around those
checks because now the decentralized oracle network isn't controlling a million dollars it's
controlling a billion dollars and we have decentralized oracle networks that control well over a billion
dollars multiple billions of dollars and we see them growing and getting more advanced data sources
and more advanced features and then if somebody else comes and says well you know I don't really
want to make a DeFi product I want to make crop insurance and I have a completely different set
of conditions I want this method of consensus and I want data to be aggregated in this way but not
the way that you do for decentralized financial products I mean what are we supposed to tell
them we're supposed to tell them no you know our decentralized oracle network can't let you do that
and you're you know you can go and and wait another five years until until somebody builds it for you
that's not what we want to do right what we want to do is be able to say absolutely here's an example
of how somebody else made a decentralized oracle network for for weather insurance right here's
a template change that template evolve it to meet your needs and then someone else comes and says hey
I have some some other use case in gaming right I want to make NFTs related to real world sports
events or I want to do whatever I want to do with with some kind of sports related data wonderful
here's the framework here are your risk dynamics here's a collection of node operators here's a
set of pre preintegrated data sources here's a reputation system to assess the quality of your
ensemble of nodes here's a way to scale that up as the as the value in your contract scales
here's all the tools that you need to build this contract and and what we actually see now as we as
there are multiple types of computations and data's data sources that are provided by different
decentralized oracle networks of which there are now hundreds we now see that a single hybrid
smart contract might use multiple decentralized oracle networks so there might be a hybrid smart
contract that uses a price data decentralized oracle network a proof of reserve oracle network
a randomness oracle network and I think we're going to continue to see this dynamic that more
and more advanced contracts compose various decentralized oracle networks into more advanced
use cases and this is this is the dynamic that you know we're focused on enabling and I think
it's actually a very virtuous cycle for everybody because the more of these hybrid smart contracts
we enable on ethereum and and other blockchains the more our industry provides real world outcomes
to the larger world which is at the end of the day what I think everybody in our industry wants
everybody in our industry wants hybrid smart contracts to become the way that global finance
works global trade works global insurance products work because they will inherently need both a
blockchain on which on which the contract itself lives and an oracle network that powers all of
the other interactions right as a developer how would you recommend somebody listening to this
but also me to get started with smart contracts and to get started with hybrid smart contracts
well well for hybrid smart contracts i'm going to have to do some kind of shameless promotion
please where let me twist your arm thank you um i i think you can go to our youtube we we have a
number of developer tutorials chain link youtube yeah chain link you i think you just started
chain link on youtube you should you should find it um beyond that we recently had a hackathon we
we had a huge amount of very very kind of advanced hybrid smart contracts getting built to elaborate
on that you had a hackathon is that something that people can follow along like a video or
there's web page traces of what happened or is there a future actual hackathons that people
could literally participate there's plenty of more hackathons coming up we want to enable as many
developers in web three and web two to build hybrid smart contracts as a way to redefine our
industry and and kind of make all of these smart contracts come to life um there are definitely
going to be more hackathons so people should go and and pre register register on a list to get
involved in that that's a great resource where we have a lot of speakers and a lot of educational
tools they happen over a course of weeks not days so there's a long time for people to work on these
things at the speed that they that they find comfortable two questions one is there a kind
of hello world entry point for uh hybrid smart contracts and two on the hackathon side like
what kind of stuff do you see people building at first just kind of getting their feet wet
like why in terms of the kind of applications that could be enabled i mean there's there's
unbelievable things that that that we see people building i think how to get your feedback i think
the hello world is probably defy because it's pretty straightforward and there's a large amount of
data sources that we already have putting data on chain on testnet which is the test environment
in which people would build so i think defy is probably to a certain degree the most exciting
for certain people and pretty pretty expansive in terms of the tutorials and the amount of
contracts to see how people have already built it um i think beyond that we see people building
amazing things at these hackathons in the previous hackathon we saw somebody build a smart contract
that allows the rental someone to rent out their tesla right so it allows the tesla api to give
someone else access and rent out someone's tesla on the basis of a smart contract kind of coordinating
payment which was you know which was kind of amazing the the more recent hackathon we saw
something called d bridge which is a cross chain solution that loses oracle networks to confirm
data on different chains so i i think the things that people build will will just become expansive
and varied in ways that i can't can't even imagine um but i i think this recent hackathon saw
a huge huge list of different um different kind of winners in different categories and there's
so many different categories we even have a gov tech category and a whole a whole a whole bunch
of things if people want to see what's possible they can go look at the winners i think that's
that's probably a good idea at yeah that's that'll be on the side of the hackathon there's a blog
related to that and we're going to have more of these and what once again our our explicit goal
is to take our industry into this world of hybrid smart contracts which which just benefits
everybody it makes more on chain activity it it helps provide real world value to the average
person from all of this infrastructure period and at the end of the day i think that it just
redefines what our industry is about through use cases right because if you only learn through our
industry from the point of view of a single use case like the nft use case or some other use case
that's what our industry is about and the more of these use cases that people can make available
to the average person or to the fintech world or to the insurance world or wherever the faster
our industry will not just be about bitcoins or tokens it will be about changing global finance
changing global insurance changing global trade and and that's the change in the world
that i and a lot of other people in this industry i think got got into this for now it's funny you've
mentioned about uh you've had a lot of kind words to say about bitcoin and ethereum as important
technology that paved the way for the future and you somehow did not mention one of the most
profound pieces of technology which is dogecoin uh what are your thoughts about this particular uh
revolutionary technology and what are your thoughts about dogecoin going to the moon
to mars and outside of the solar system i think dogecoin is um is a very interesting
kind of uh probably closer to a social experiment than than anything else isn't everything a social
experiment yeah i i guess that's fair to to a degree um i think it's fascinating how how that's
evolved um i think the people that made it made it with certain you know goals in mind and then
it's kind of taken on a life of its own i don't fully understand exactly why it's taken on a
life of of its own at this point um i once again i don't spend too much time thinking about you know
different tokens and and and how they're evolving i'm much more focused on on the launching and um
the technology around trust and all those kinds of ideas but you know i think one of the fascinating
things about dogecoin is the how technology that is that leverages social dynamics that
technology's ability to utilize fun and memes to spread i think it's really interesting i i
don't think it should be discounted as a as a i think i tweeted today something about like the
fundamental force field of fun uh that fun has an effect on the spacetime so general relativity
describes how mass and energy can curve spacetime and i was just giving an example that when life
is fun it seems short when life is not fun it seems very long so fun has a very similar effect on
spacetime like in curved spacetime in that same sense there there is a power to the meme
and i think dogecoin illustrates that i think elon is an example of somebody that uses dogecoin
i don't know his philosophy but in particular in this aspect but he does use it effectively
to excite the world in a fun way about the possibilities of future technologies like
cryptocurrency i think the bitcoin world is very serious right now and we've spoken to
about bitcoin maxim list there is very little space for fun and joking in the bitcoin world
but there's still a little bit of fun and humor left in the dogecoin world in that sense i think
it's exceptionally powerful to inspire to excite to uh to be able to talk about stuff without
without the seriousness of financial impact that now certain cryptocurrencies have like bitcoin
so i keep an eye on that i've previously mentioned that dogecoin i think is a fascinating piece of
technology because i do think cryptocurrency is much bigger than uh the the technology like
they that you focus on there is also a social element that you also spoke to that's uh i think
not quite yet understood and it's fascinating to watch especially as it co evolves with the
different tools on the internet different social networks social network mechanisms on the internet
so i'm a huge supporter of dogecoin because i'm a huge supporter of fun i'm i'm fascinated to see
how how to work out you think i'll go to the moon you think it'll be the first cryptocurrency to
land on the moon i i couldn't say i haven't i haven't done the analysis as i said before i haven't
done the analysis well yeah no matter what i do hope we uh we'll get humans back on the moon
and uh hopefully get humans on mars soon doge doge dogecoin bitcoin
or not let me ask you about books and movies what books and movies in your life
life long ago when you were a baby surge or today had an impact on you maybe you would
recommend to others and and maybe what ideas you took away from those books movies coloring books
children's books blogs whatever yeah yeah sure um so i i think one of the things that had a
very big impact on me were playdoh's dialogues and particularly protagonist and gorgeous as as
as some of the two initial ones i i think what playdoh's dialogues do very well is they give
people a clear picture of what dialogue looks like and what the assessment of information um
probably should look like right and how the dissection and analysis of an idea is very important
and how it can actually be taken in either direction but at the end of the day
that the process of eliminating um kind of this fuzzy thinking and arriving at whether it's an
external dialogue or an internal dialogue about an accurate picture of reality is actually very
important and so i i think i'm very lucky to have read um the dialogues when i was uh in my
early teenage years and it had a very large impact on me because it kind of showed me that you know
nobody knows what they're talking about i would i would uh play out dialogues in my mind and i would
engage in certain dialogues with with um with different people and what you know the platonic
dialogue showed me was kind of how to tell when someone has no clue and a lot of people are very
good at um kind of say they have a clue right saying like here's how the world works here's
what you should do with your life here's what you should do with your time here's what you
should do with your money here's what you should do with your attention here's what you
should do with all these things and i think the ability to evaluate information generally
is something that is surprisingly under taught i i don't actually understand why there isn't a course
in like high schools or universities that's just like here is how you evaluate information here's
how you engage in external dialogue and internal dialogue to arrive at an accurate picture of reality
rather than the picture of reality that other people want you to have for their benefit most often
right and at the end of the day um i think that put me down a path to really try and understand
beyond that um i think biographies have had a very large impact on me um you know plutarchs
greek and roman lives after i read plato i started reading a bunch of stuff greek stuff i was just like
these greek guys they really know how it is you know they did this 2000 years ago and they still
got it right there's something here it's kind of this like theory of time around them the value
of intellectual ideas right if an intellectual idea has survived the test of time it's much more
valuable than the intellectual idea that i just came up with 10 minutes ago haven't told anybody
and hasn't gone up against you know the all of the kind of rebuttals so what's your favorite what
would you say would be a most impactful biography that you've come across i don't think it was those
greek or roman biographies because they were very far away i think that um probably one of the most
impactful ones that i can remember recently is around uh vanderbilt and so vanderbilt was these
was this guy who basically without that much of an education he would invent or work with people
to make these steamboats and then he had a lot of acumen around creating certain monopolies
regardless of you know what was um right or wasn't right and then fascinating enough it all
hinged on like a supreme court case that decided if monopolies were acceptable um in in the form
of state created monopolies or not and if they were you know if it was deemed that state created
monopolies were acceptable he would have had a huge problem this guy but it was deemed that
state created monopolies through these licenses for steamboat roots was not acceptable and that
did two interesting things that unseated um some kind of old time landed gentry in the americas
in like the 1830s and 40s and it um you know basically made him right and he saw it before
other people so i i think this i think vanderbilt was a very interesting um personality first of all
of all the of all the biographies that i read is um is somebody who really took um
took the situation in hand and kind of took action to achieve an outcome which i i think
was uh was an amazing amazing result that the fascinating thing by the way is a amazing way
of looking at things the fascinating thing by the way is that the ferries now in new york harbour
are all um run as a public good so the fascinating thing is that the guy he he focused on an industry
and he worked on something that was so important that it ended up becoming a public good and i i
think that that that's an interesting conception of of how to look at this industry um i think there's
um a lot of economics dynamics around this industry but i i think i might have sent this i
might have said this somewhere else before but really the success of someone in this industry
is whether they're able to make a linux or http or an https like system that lives on for a very
long time and is essentially a kind of public good the success of an idea even if that idea is
originally sort of a capitalist idea above and that's grounded in financial benefit success of
it is if it becomes a public good it is so universal it is it is so fundamental to the
quality of life that it's a public good that is deemed to be so valuable that it should be a public
good yeah i think so i think that's a pretty uh a pretty good definition of success that you
you work on a body of work and that body of work isn't just some commercial enterprise it's um it's
a body of work that whatever commercial aspects or economic incentive aspects it might have it
eventually is so important that it becomes um critical to how society functions uh i'm personally
quite um you know lucky and grateful to be in my opinion working on something like that with
an amazing team and an amazing community that seems to really very much care about this hybrid
smart contract transparent world that you know a lot of people in our industry realistically i think
this is why a lot of them signed up you know this is why i came into our industry it wasn't because
bitcoin it was it was because bitcoin was a picture of how the world could work in so many
other ways and that picture of how the world could work in so many other ways um attracted me a very
long time ago and i think that all of this stuff will eventually become a public good i i think
it'll become so critical to how societies function internally and internationally that just like
there are systems you know like the federal reserve like global payment systems like all these types
of things i think eventually all of the all of this technology will be baked into these
society societally critical systems and if i in our community and the people i work with and the
body of work that we're working on can make some kind of contribution to that shift um towards
uh fair economically fair transparent society uh from my point of view it's a very very worthwhile
body of work in in terms of the show you you also mentioned mentioned the show you know one of the
you know one of the shows that i really um seemed to like more and more for some reason is uh star
track not the old star track i don't really get the old star track the special effects aren't good
enough star track like the next generation and voyager and um deep space nine and all those
i i think whenever i happen to watch a star trek show again i have a very simple conception in
my mind that i really didn't have whenever i saw it way back when it's that this is what the world
looks like if technology takes us towards a utopia right so i think there's this fascinating thing
where technology can take us towards a utopia or towards a dystopia and in my mind those kind of
three star trek shows are a picture of what human civilization looks like if everybody's
technological ambitions successfully take us towards a utopia right because in the star
trek universe you're not seeking money or you're not seeking safety or you're not seeking you're
not really seeking anything for yourself everybody you know within maslow's hierarchy of needs
has has gotten so many things for themselves that their that their goal is learning and discovering
and or helping and i i think there is this conception of human life once the baser needs
are satisfied and at the at the end of the day i think that's what technology generally can elevate
all of human civilization to right it can elevate us to star trek world where if people want to
invent they can do that all day and nothing else if people want to explore the stars they can explore
the stars and and they don't have to worry about economics care city or any number of these other
conceptions so i i don't know what the most impactful on me shows have been but for some
reason recently star trek in this in the newer variant not the most new new star trek shows
those shows are a little strange the the kind of middle star trek universe where where everybody
is doing something with like a very important purpose and and nobody's thinking about like
where's my paycheck or where's my you know where's my whatever they're all kind of like we have to
discover the formula to this to save the planet over there and literally every episode you're
discovering a formula to save a planet right of some kind or a universe or ecosystem or whatever
and it's and you're looking at you're like you know this this this is this is like this is a pretty
good place to end up this is where we might want to end up so it gives you hope and it's funny that
we don't we don't often think about the i think it's very useful to think about positive visions
of the future when we're trying to design technology there's a lot of sort of in public discourse
a lot of people are thinking about kind of how everything goes wrong it's important to
think about that sometimes but in moderation i think because you there's not enough the in my
little corner of artificial intelligence world people are very kind of fear monger centered
there's a lot of discussions about how everything goes wrong important to do but it's also really
important to talk about how things can go right because we ultimately want to guide the design
of the systems to create to make things right and i think with hope and optimism not naiveness but
optimism you can actually create a better world like you have to think about a positive
a better world as you create because then you can actually create it um yeah i'm one of the people
who thinks that um having an optimistic view of the world is better for design and creativity
than having a pessimistic one it's hard to design when you're in fear uh do you have advice
for young people speaking of being excited about and hopeful about the future world do you have
uh advice for young people today in uh computer science world and software engineering world
and crypto world but maybe in any world whatsoever um for life how to pick a career or how to live
life in general i think the thing that that that young people should do is is not anyone's
specific thing for any anyone's specific young person i think what they should do is what they
won't be able to do in the later stages of their life yeah and the way in my opinion from a framework
point of view to think about that is that the amount of obligations and the amount of time
that a person has seems to just diminish over time right so the amount of free time they have
right so you start your job you get a bunch of responsibilities something with your partner
spouse more responsibilities kids probably even more responsibilities and soon enough the time
that you have to educate yourself to travel to you know experience the world however create
whatever creative endeavor you're interested in um slowly but surely disappears i think this is
something that you know young people don't fully realize they they assume that the world as it is
now and the amount of free time that they have to travel to educate themselves to make new friends
to do all these things will somehow maybe diminish by 10 percent it won't diminish by 10 percent
it'll diminish by 90 percent yeah and the 10 percent that you have you'll be resting to get
to get back to work and get things done so yeah what i think young people should do and this is
why it's very different for each of them right i can't tell young people hey you should study
philosophy travel and start your own enterprise to achieve something worthwhile in the world right
that might be something that's good for me with my values and my kind of worldview but for other
people might be something else i i think the way that they should conceptualize it is imagine if over
the next um 10 12 years the amount of choice that you had about what you could do was cut down by 90
percent what would you and this is you know copying from this kind of just Jeff Bezos regret
minimization framework in that framework it's like what would i regret not doing at 80 and that's
kind of meant to create this long term view and make these decisions now that'll get you to a
long term future that you can look back on and be proud of your life right what i think young
people should do is they is they they should say to themselves look if i never get the chance to
travel for as long as i live assuming that after 25 after 27 after 29 that's the case how will i
feel about that if i never get to start a company after 25 after i get married after i have kids
how will i feel about that and whatever they feel the worst about is what they should do
whatever they feel like when they say to themselves you know if i don't travel now i will never travel
travel and they feel horrible about that they just have an overwhelming fear and disgust at
themselves in that type of state at 25 27 29 that's what they should do and they shouldn't
listen to anybody else um i i i let me put it to you this way if you're really smart you're
going to make it anyway there's a lot of people putting a lot of pressure on you because they're
afraid whether you're going to make it if you're really smart you're going to make it anyway if
you're not really smart you're screwed anyway so either way just relax with it and use your time
well to do the the things you would most regret not doing that's really fascinating i wouldn't
i wouldn't say relax i would say very much cherish the free time yeah the discretionary time that
you have from the age of 18 to maybe 25 yeah because at 25 everyone's going to start looking
at each other and asking what have what have i like my friends have achieved i haven't achieved
and then by the time you get to 30 you're going to look at each other again and go well my friends
have a family or a company or a phd or or whatever what do i have and the pressure will just increase
and it'll increase so much that even if you want to go and do the fun thing it will not be fun
because the pressure yeah of comparing yourself to your friends at 25 or your peers at 30 will
be so great that you will no longer it will no longer be normal for you to be in a hostel at 30
you know kind of like living it up right if if and and and this is why i also can't tell you
specifically what it is for me it was getting an education in philosophy that was rigorous and in
depth it was traveling and it was starting an enterprise that i thought that was worthwhile
that i directed that i could make into something great that's what it was for me for other people
it might be something with a band it might be something with painting it might be an education
you by the way should also should not assume that your ability to get an education will
will improve all of those responsibilities will take away your ability to get an education
so if you value having an education if you value being a deeply educated well rounded person
with a wide array of knowledge on a wide array of topics capitalism will force you to specialize
that's what it's good at it's going to take you it's going to fashion you into a very specific
tool for a very most people into a very specific set of tasks if you want to have an education
in something get it now if you want to travel somewhere travel there now if you want to you
know do some kind of creative endeavor that you doubt whether you'll have time for in the future
do it now you won't have time for it in the future you won't have time to read philosophy books all
day unfortunately you won't have time to fly to you know italy and kind of hang out with people
if you're serious about your life you're going to get more responsibilities you're going to get
more stuff to do and so my advice to you is do not piss away this rare unique discretionary time
and if your friends are get new friends get smarter friends get people who are using the
limited time they have better yeah um that's my advice so it's just a quickly comment it's brilliant
you know to reframe high school and undergraduate college education sometimes people want to quickly
get it over with but one thing I remember thinking and it's very true about high school is one of
the only times in in your life you'll get a chance to truly get a broad education you don't often
think of it that way but it's a chance to really enjoy learning things that are outside of the
specialty that you'll eventually end up with and that's how college education is and a more fun
side I played music I I did martial arts and we offline mentioned played video games I find it
fascinating and brilliant what you said which is the world will will not give you a chance to truly
enjoy many of these things and truly get value from many of those things uh once you get older
I find it exceptionally difficult to enjoy video games now there's so much stuff to do
there's so much responsibility and I at the time when I played elder scrolls and Baldur's Gate and
Diablo 2 and at the time I thought maybe that was a waste of time but now looking back I realize
because I always thought you know let me get the career first and then I'll have a chance to play
video games that's the way I was thinking you know it was a waste of time because I should really
progress on the career and then I'll have time to play video games no the reality is that was
really fulfilling those are some of the happiest travel experiences of my life is me traveling to
those virtual worlds and spending time in them and it was really fulfilling and they stayed
with me for the rest of my life and I get to experience echoes of that when I play video games
these days for an hour here an hour there like one hour a month or something like that but even
those experiences as silly as they are they seem like a waste of time at the time enjoying them fully
unapologetically and you know in a framework exactly as you said would I regret being the
kind of person who've never played those video games and I can for myself honestly say that yes
look when I'm on my deathbed I'm glad at Bouldersgate I build Bouldersgate too and and all those
arena dagger fall moral wind and all the Elder Scroll games and yeah the things that don't necessarily
fit into this kind of storyline of what a career is supposed to be a travel and all those experiences
they might I think I just like to say one one one final quick thing on this I think this extends
to really hard things as well it extends to the things you want to do but one of the best pieces
advice one of my mentors gave me early on in in my career around this time is that it will actually
become harder to start a company as you get older yes once again because you have more
responsibilities you're responsible to your partner for some kind of income to create a life
together once you have kids you're responsible for an even greater income to create a life for kids
and startups do not generate income right they take many many years before anything happens
people are getting evicted people are eating ramen noodles that is a thing that happens that that
that will happen so I'm not saying that you should do the fun things or the enjoyable things I'm
saying the things that you would regret not doing that you can uniquely do in the time span from 18
to 25 which one of which is if you plan to have a family and start a family when you're 25 you
should start a company now you should not wait until a bunch of people depend on you for income to
eat to start a company the amount of pressure that will be on you at that point will be monumental
you should start a company when nobody depends on you and you can sleep on the floor eating ramen
noodles and still have a great time and show up with a lot of enthusiasm and be excited so I just
mean whatever you want to really devote yourself to and and really do don't put it off don't go to
consulting or banking or any other industry and say I'm going to do this for three years and I'll
get experience the only way you get experience is by doing something you go you do it you fail
you do it again and again and again and again and again and then you have experience and then you
can do it right that's the only way experience happens there is no other way short of mentorship
if you're lucky to get mentorship 99% of people don't get mentorship and even though we're talking
about young people I feel like you're speaking to me as somebody who's who spent the last two weeks
sleeping on the floor because there's no mattress and somebody who is single and somebody who's
thinking about doing a startup I felt like you're speaking to me as a as a fellow young person
and let me ask you about this whole life of ours to zoom out on the big philosophical question
the ridiculous question what do you think is the meaning of it all do you think about this kind of
stuff as you're creating all the technology as you're thinking about this future you ever zoom
out and think like why why why are you surrogate striving why are we the human species striving
for the stars so I think it comes down to you know whether people want to live in society
so if if people decide to be part of society they have a certain
set of conditions that they decide to take part in right so I think what this what this
comes down to is a lot of really involved conversations but if we assume people have
free will and choice we just kind of make that blanket assumption then the question starts to
become well what choices do we make and how do we live with those choices and I think probably the
most fundamental choice is whether we exist in a society or we choose to leave society and there
are people that do this there are people that go live in the woods there are people that immigrate
to other societies and they make a choice right and as they enter those other societies or they
choose to leave society leave society and go live in the woods they adopt a certain set of values
right they adopt values that the society prescribes they compromise their own values they
define their own values and they create a set of values for themselves right I think at the end
of the day if you're going to choose to live in society in addition to all the minimums of you
know not throwing garbage on the floor and you know doing doing nice things for people that need
help and and doing any number of things to just be a normal human being within society you you
have to ask yourself what am I doing as part of society right you can always say hey I'm going to
leave society I'm going to live in the woods I did that right I went and I lived in the woods
and I gave it a shot realized a ton of stuff huge amount of clarity from that but when you
decide to live in society you you take on first of all certain minimal agreements you you you
mold your values a little bit to that society that's another choice that people inherently make
and then there's a question of well what am I doing here right what am I doing in society
right so when people say the meaning of life I don't know what the meaning of life is the meaning
of life in society right what what's the meaning of life for the choice that you've made within
society right because that's maybe the first fundamental choice you made you made a choice
and you continue to make a choice to be part of society and a specific society right so you've
made this choice you're part of a society and now you kind of have a life and you have people around
you and then the question is in my in my opinion the question is what is the body of work that you
want to make right I think personally that life is kind of so short and the ability to get enough
resources for yourself in at least the developed markets where we're like lucky to be in is so
relatively abundant that we you and me have the luxury you know by your pursuit of a phd you know
you've had this luxury I've had this luxury um through the work that I've been doing to pursue
something that makes society better so this is kind of the um question I would say the question is
am I going to live in society yes or no yes okay most people choose yes I I understand why to a
degree I understand why some people choose no and then um what is the and I'm going to be in
society I'm going to go if you choose to be in society you're you're just choosing to abide by
the rules you're choosing to just do the minimum right that's what being part of society means
people that choose to be part of society but don't want to do this it's it's very confusing
they should just leave they should just go look I don't like this deal I'm going to go somewhere
else I'm going to live in Tibet I'm going to live in the woods I'm going to live wherever
where the rules are to my liking right um you you've chosen to be in society next question
kind of final question is what is the body of work that I'm going to be involved in because in
looking at that Jeff Bezos kind of regret minimization framework thing I think that's what
a lot of it really comes down to is you kind of the framework is at 80 years old you look back
over your life what would you regret not doing what would you regret not not pursuing I think
there there are a number of things on a personal level each person has but I think at least for
me and and probably for many of the other people I know there's a question of what is the body of
work that I was involved in what did I do what what happened right what was I involved in
and in my opinion you you should have a good answer to that and you mentioned the body work in
relation to whether it helped make a better world and the fundamental question there is
what does better mean so it's our striving to understand what is better what kind of world
would we love to exist after we're gone and I think that's another thing almost unanswerable
question but it's one we can strive towards is what is what is a better world right I think
that's all that's that's once again a very that's a very personal question I'm not sure if there's
an objective moral truth that's going to suddenly give us all an answer I think it's actually quite
fascinating to me when people feel they have this objective moral truth they're so sure in their
opinions you know this is what we do we should go you know hurt them or help them or kill them or
or or rescue them or whatever right there's this there's all these kind of very situational specific
kind of like this is the right thing to do the objective moral truth told me that this is it
but maybe there's a definitive truth that we can arrive towards a sort of a consensus of what
that is within the little local pocket of society that you're in yeah that's the point that's what
that's what happens people just then mislabel it and they go like objective moral truth yeah this
is this is not my this is not our idea you know this is coming up from on high here this is this
is the this is the the objective moral truth that you know I I think exists in some metaphysical
form somewhere and then you build a building with marble and as big and usually what happens
and then you convince yourself that that building represents I think those people actually under
the people build those buildings under probably understand that there is no metaphysical object
they're just like we're all just coming to consensus I'm gonna build the biggest building
and you're like me and that's what we're gonna do right like they just they just look at it
that way probably I I think I think what ends up happening with with all these values is yeah
people should determine that for themselves I I agree that there's a second order question here
of what is the best the the best body of work to work on personally I think that's probably a mix of
what could you realistically achieve you know is that gonna have an impact on society that you
feel good about yeah right so these these are probably the two aspects of this question and
is this gonna have a good impact on society that you feel good about obviously very subjective
right some people save animals some people save forests we and and I are creating this
system of economic fairness and transparency I feel that I'm in a good position to enable that
I feel that I have a good chance of succeeding at that and I think that the impact will be
quite quite meaningful for a large number of people and so I'm completely happy to look back
once I'm 80 and see a body of work that achieve that and be very proud of that right because
I think that's what I'll be doing when I'm looking back so well I agree with you the the scale of
impact as a but smart hybrid smart contracts this whole idea that you're working on has a potential
to transform the world for the better at a scale that that I can't even imagine so speaking of which
means even more that you would waste so many hours of that exciting life with me thank you so much
for talking today Sergei this is a really fascinating conversation a really fascinating
space and I can't wait to learn more so thank you so much for talking today thank you for having
me it's been an absolute pleasure thanks for listening to this conversation with Sergei Nazarov
and thank you to Wine Access Athletic Greens Magic Spoon Indeed and Better Help check them out in
the description to support this podcast and now let me leave you with some words from Copernicus
to know that we know what we know and to know that we do not know what we do not know that
is true knowledge thank you for listening and hope to see you next time